TOWN BOARD WORKSHOP
AGENDA
DECEMBER 15, 2014
4:30 P.M.
Monday, December 15, 2014 – 4:00 P.M.
Building Study of Town Hall & Library – LaBella Associates
*Presentation Only in Main Meeting Room*



No Special Permits
No Public Hearings
1.) Approval of Minutes of the Preceding Town Board Workshop Meeting
December 1, 2014
2.) Approval of Minutes at Town Board meeting(s)
3.) Consider Authorizing Supervisor to Sign Abandonment of Easement – Water Main –
1200 Miracle Mile Drive - Martin
4.) Consider Authorizing Request for Special Permit Extension – SP2013-030 – Empire
United Soccer Academy - Martin
5.) Info Only: Discuss Request for Proposals for Construction Observation Services for
2015 - Martin
6.) Info Only: Code Violations Update - Marshall
7.) Consider Abolishing Two (2) Stop Signs – Kodak Drive & East River Road – Eckert
8.) Consider Declaring Item Surplus Material – Highway Department – Eckert
9.) Info Only: Discuss Auction Results – Eckert
10.) Info Only: Discuss After School Program – Kulik
11.) Info Only: Discuss Update to Website – Taylor
12.) Consider Authorizing Building Permit Extension – 1530 Middle Road - Ekwell
13.) Info Only: Drainage Study Update – Minotti
14.) Info Only: Update on Code Revisions – Minotti
15.) Consider Calling for a Public Hearing – Richland Residential, Inc. - The Summit
Student Housing – Minotti / Martin

16.) Consider Adopting Proposed Local Law No. 4 of 2014 – A Local Law Amending the
Town Code to Allow New York State Town Law §278 Cluster Subdivisions to be
Permitted in RR Districts – Minotti
17.) Consider Calling for a Public Hearing – Ward Hill Subdivision Rezoning – Lacey
Development - Martin
18.) Consider Authorizing Supervisor to Sign 2015 Contract with Henrietta Volunteer
Ambulance – Chirdo
19.) Consider Awarding Quote and Authorizing 2014 Auditing Services – Raymond F.
Wager, CPA, P.C. – Chirdo
20.) Info Only: Update on Department of Public Works, H.R. Interviews – Chirdo
21.) Consider Authorizing Finance Director to Award Quote for HVAC Services – Chirdo
22.) Consider Authorizing Budget Transfers – Chirdo7
23.) Info Only: Rental Registry Update – Page
24.) Info Only: Discuss Recreation Building Concept Plan & Set Date – Moore
25.) Info Only: Discuss Democrat and Chronicle, Ben London Interview – Development
in Henrietta (in paper on Sunday, December 21, 2014) - Moore
26.) Review Personnel Items – Moore
27.) Consider Bills Payable – Moore
28.) Old Business
Executive Session – Personnel

TOWN OF HENRIETTA
TOWN BOARD WORKSHOP MEETING NOTES
DECEMBER 15, 2014
The regularly scheduled Workshop of the Henrietta Town Board for Monday, December
15, 2014 was called to order at 5:15 P.M.
MEMBERS PRESENT
Supervisor Jack W. Moore
Deputy Supervisor Peter C. Minotti
Councilman William J. Mulligan, Jr.
Councilwoman Janet B. Zinck
Councilman M. Rick Page
Councilman Kenneth Breese
Daniel J. Mastrella, Town Attorney
Rebecca Wiesner, Town Clerk/Receiver of Taxes

GUESTS/RESIDENTS PRESENT
John Colagrosso
Phil Mancini
Linus Rautenstrauch
Angela Zanghi
Jennifer Ewing
Julie Quinn

Monday, December 15, 2014 – 4:00 P.M.
Building Study of Town Hall & Library – LaBella Associates
*Presentation Only in Main Meeting Room*
Chris Talarczyk and Rick McClung from LaBella Associates gave a presentation on the
building study of the Town Hall, Henrietta Public Library, and Henrietta Court. The
process began in September with an evaluation of the existing Town facilities and then
progressed to interviews with department heads, judges, the Court clerk, Director of the
Henrietta Public Library, and Library staff. One goal of the project was to bring the Town
Court on to the Town campus.
Existing Conditions of Town Hall:
- The Town Hall is land locked a bit; there is limited area for building additions and
parking.
- Due to the age of the building, it’s very likely that there is asbestos in anything that
isn’t wood, metal, or concrete.
- HVAC: There are currently four (4) air handling units (east wing / west wing / lobby
/ main meeting room) in fair to poor condition with poor zoning. The HVAC
controls are very old and need to be upgraded. The Town should also invest in a
more efficient boiler.
- ADA improvements are needed.
- Most of the power service and distribution is beyond its useful life and the lighting
controls haven’t been updated; occupancy sensors should be utilized.
- Fire alarms should be updated so they are audio/visual.
- Security updates are needed.
- There are roof drainage problems. There should be two (2) roof drains per roof,
and the Town Hall only has one (1) on each of the three (3) roofs.
- There is approximately ten to fifteen (10 – 15) years left in the life of the façade
windows on the east and west elevations. The windows on the north and south

TB Workshop December 15, 2014
-

facades are single pane windows that should be replaced.
Overall, the structure is in good condition; there is no excessive cracking in the
masonry or the foundation.

Existing Condition of the Library:
- The structure is in good condition. A few pieces of the precast panels on the
building envelope have spalled off at the corners, but the condition is minor. The
joint sealant at the precast panels should be replaced.
- There is evidence of standing water on the roof.
- ADA improvements are needed.
- Interior finishes are in good condition, though outdated.
- HVAC: The heat pumps were replaced in recent years, but they are unable to
achieve a uniform temperature. Most likely, it is an issue with the controls.
- The plumbing is adequate and in good condition.
- The electrical power service is at the end of its useful life and occupancy sensors
should be added.
- Fire alarms should be updated so they are audio/visual.
- Security updates are needed.
Based
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

on the existing conditions, the following goals/objectives were established:
Organizational clarity
Increase operational and functional efficiency
Maintain flexibility and adaptability
Enhance accessibility
Enhance physical and psychological comfort
Enhance safety and security.

The program summary
requirements:
Town Hall: Total
Town Court: Total
Library:
Total

of the project resulted in the following square footage
gross square feet:
gross square feet:
gross square feet:

20,268 (currently approximately 20,000)
12,878 (currently approximately 6,000)
36,030 (currently approximately 20,000)

Concept Proposal / Budget:
The total concept budget of the proposal involving a 10,000 sq. ft. addition on the west
wing/center of the building to hold the Town Court and a 15,000 sq. ft. addition on the
east wing of the building for Town Hall is $11,100,000 - $12,300,000. The project would
need to be executed in three (3) phases: 1) build the town hall addition; 2) renovate the
east wing; 3) build court and renovate the west wing. The total concept budget of the
proposal for the library would be $8,300,000 - $9,400,000 and would be a three (3) year
project.

2

TB Workshop December 15, 2014
Additional options:
A. Not moving the Town Court to the Town campus, but to still build the east wing
addition (west wing functions would move into the renovated east wing, east wing
functions would move into the new addition, and meeting spaces would be added
to the west wing), which would cost approximately $8,200,000 – $9,200,000.
B. A new two (2) story Town Hall building could be built in front of the current
building. The current building would be demolished to provide additional
parking. That would cost approximately $8,200,000 - $9,200,000.
C. A new thirty-six thousand square feet (36,000 s.f.) library could be built on Town
land someplace for $10,800,000 - $11,800,000.
Recommendations:
- Library: The cost of the Library addition is comparable to building a new facility, but
by building the addition it would limit future expansion and flexibility. LaBella
Associates recommended that a new library be built or that the functions be moved
to a facility that has already been renovated and the existing library could have an
alternate use.
- Town Hall: The cost of expanding the Town Hall to accommodate the Town Court
plus the additional space for Town Hall functions is not efficient. Additionally, the
magnitude of the addition would compromise the architectural integrity of the
existing Town Hall. LaBella Associates recommended not locating the Town Court
here and that a new Town Hall should be built north of the existing building. The
existing Town Hall should then be demolished.
Following the presentation, the Town Board had a discussion about the project and the
fact that there hasn’t been much of anything done to Town Hall since it was built in 1964.
The biggest change in Town Hall was the movement of the Library out of the west wing
and into a new building in 1978.
Councilman Page asked whether the current library could be used as a Court building if the
Library moved to a new or renovated building. Another option discussed was having the
Monroe County Sheriff move on site to the current Library building.




No Special Permits
No Public Hearings

1.)

Approval of Minutes of the Preceding Town Board Workshop
Meeting
December 1, 2014

Councilman Page made a motion to approve the Town Board Workshop Minutes from the
December 1, 2014 Meeting and Councilman Mulligan seconded the motion.

3

TB Workshop December 15, 2014
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

2.)

Approval of Minutes at Town Board meeting(s)

3.)

Consider Authorizing Supervisor to Sign Abandonment
Easement – Water Main – 1200 Miracle Mile Drive - Martin

of

At the December 3rd Town Board Meeting, Resolution #22-267/2014 authorized the
Supervisor to sign an Abandonment of Easement for the sanitary sewer at 1200 Miracle
Mile Drive, and so this is a continuation of that Resolution regarding an abandonment of
the water main easement.
4.)

Consider Authorizing Request for Special Permit Extension –
SP2013-030 – Empire United Soccer Academy - Martin

Chris Martin, Director of Engineering & Planning, said that the Applicant has still been
working on approvals and wasn’t sure whether the funding has been secured, but they are
planning on starting work on the project next year.
5.)

Info Only: Discuss Request for Proposals for Construction
Observation Services for 2015 - Martin

A spreadsheet itemizing the proposals was included in each of the Town Board Members’
packets for them to discuss at Executive Session. Chris Martin, Director of Engineering &
Planning, explained that the Engineering Department currently has three (3) people
employed as inspectors: Scott Sullivan, Steve MacIntyre, and Ken Hill. Based on the
Comptroller’s audit, these people need to be either Town employees or contract
employees. If they become Town employees, the hourly rate plus benefits would result
in rates of approximately thirty-three dollars an hour ($33.00/hr.), whereas if they were
hired as contract employees, their rates would be approximately sixty to seventy dollars an
hour ($60 - $70/hr.). However Supervisor Moore pointed out that each of the inspectors
probably wouldn’t work forty (40) hours every week. But even if they were hired as Town
employees, Martin said an outside consulting firm would still need to be utilized because
the Engineering Department has too much work.
6.)

Info Only: Code Violations Update - Marshall

Chuck Marshall, Deputy Commissioner of Public Works, reported that the Code
Enforcement Officers have performed twenty-eight hundred (2,800) inspections on
violations this year. A waste hauler was hired for the cleanup of eleven (11) properties;
4

TB Workshop December 15, 2014
one building was demolished; and a contractor was hired for the cleanup of seven (7)
properties. One hundred twenty-one (121) violations have been written for house
numbers. And violations for grass cutting have decreased by approximately thirty-five
percent (35%). The Code Enforcement Officers are still working on 50 Faircrest Road.
There was a big cleanup done on the property back in September and so now they won’t
receive any violations, only tickets.
7.)

Consider Abolishing Two (2) Stop Signs – Kodak Drive & East
River Road – Eckert

A request was received from Terrence Rice, Director of Transportation at the Monroe
County Department of Transportation, to abolish two (2) stop signs on East River Road at
the intersections to the old Kodak Industrial Park.
8.)

Consider Declaring Item Surplus Material – Highway Department
– Eckert

On November 19, 2014, Resolution #21-259/2014 authorized the purchase of one (1) new
skid steer loader to replace equipment #556. A new snow blower attachment was
purchased for the new skid steer loader, so the existing snow blower attachment,
Inventory #8075, will be traded in and removed from inventory.
9.)

Info Only: Discuss Auction Results – Eckert

On December 3, 2014, Resolution #22-271/2014 authorized that equipment #115, a
wheel loader, be consigned to the Teitsworth Municipal Auction on December 6th since the
purchase of a new wheel loader was authorized via Resolution #20-250/2014. Craig
Eckert, Commissioner of Public Works, reported that Teitsworth Municipal Auction gave
the Town a thirty-one thousand, five hundred dollar ($31,500.00) guarantee on the wheel
loader. The wheel loader actually sold for thirty-eight thousand dollars ($38,000.00), so
the Town received thirty-four thousand five hundred dollars ($34,500.00) for it.
10.)

Info Only: Discuss After School Program – Kulik

More detailed information regarding the After School Program will be released on January
19, 2015. Supervisor Moore suggested having a printout clarifying information for
parents. There was a general consensus that the reason the process was left open ended
was so that the process could be evaluated and changes could be made. Supervisor
Moore said he was surprised at what happened during the lottery this year, because he
was told families would be grandfathered in but it didn’t seem to happen. Councilwoman
Zinck echoed the sentiment by stating that grandfathering families into the After School
Program would provide protection so that children can stay with other children and
teachers they already knew. Councilwoman Zinck also asked about siblings and what the
policy would be for them. Councilman Page stated he believed the lottery would be for
new children only and that as a parent, he wouldn’t mind if his children were in different
schools as long as the service was there. Jason Kulik, Director of Parks and Recreation,
5

TB Workshop December 15, 2014
said there were still a lot of unanswered questions but he would like to speak with the
parents and other members of the community before making any decisions. Kulik also
mentioned that there is an issue with non-residents since there are non-Henrietta
residents attending Rush-Henrietta Central Schools.
11.)

Info Only: Discuss Update to Website – Taylor

Michele Taylor, IT Coordinator, said that all of the content has been moved over to the
new website and it should be in place by the end of the year.
12.)

Consider Authorizing Building Permit Extension – 1530 Middle
Road - Ekwell

The current resident of 1530 Middle Road purchased the property ten (10) years ago and
they are now looking to sell it. However, the previous owner never obtained a permit for
the deck and a final inspection was never done on the permit from 1999 for the garage.
This request for an extension is to enable the final inspection to be executed so that the
owner can receive the certificate of compliance.
Councilman Mulligan made a motion to approve a building permit extension for 1530
Middle Road, to expire on January 30, 2015, and Councilwoman Zinck seconded the
motion.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore
13.)

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

Info Only: Drainage Study Update – Minotti

Peter Minotti, Deputy Supervisor, reported that he received a revised estimate letter from
BME Associates which reduced the original amount by approximately fifty-seven thousand
dollars ($57,000.00).
14.)

Info Only: Update on Code Revisions – Minotti

The final draft of the revised Town Code has been printed and the paper copy should be
received on Wednesday. The electronic copy of the document would be received
tomorrow. Donald Young, Zoning Board Attorney, will be putting together a syllabus for
moving forward with the adoption of the Code revisions.

6

TB Workshop December 15, 2014
15.)

Consider Calling for a Public Hearing – Richland Residential, Inc. The Summit Student Housing – Minotti / Martin

Peter Minotti, Deputy Supervisor, has been reviewing the two hundred sixty-four (264)
page SEQRA documentation, including the Type I Environmental Assessment Form.
Minotti told the Town Board that he would send the documentation on to them. The
market feasibility is presented and complete in the report, which is something the Town
was not able to get from Campus Crest. A neighborhood meeting about the project was
scheduled for 6:30 p.m. later this evening.
16.)

Consider Adopting Proposed Local Law No. 4 of 2014 – A Local
Law Amending the Town Code to Allow New York State Town Law
§278 Cluster Subdivisions to be Permitted in RR Districts – Minotti

The Members of the Town Board felt that they would be ready to vote on the adoption of
proposed Local Law No. 4 of 2014 at Wednesday’s Town Board Meeting.
17.)

Consider Calling for a Public Hearing – Ward Hill Subdivision
Rezoning – Lacey Development - Martin

The proposed Resolution for Wednesday night involves calling for a Public Hearing to be
held on January 21st and to start the SEQRA process. Chris Martin, Director of
Engineering & Planning, said that four of five (4 – 5) years ago sanitary sewer was brought
into the property and it was rezoned as RR-1.
18.)

Consider Authorizing Supervisor to Sign 2015 Contract with
Henrietta Volunteer Ambulance – Chirdo

19.)

Consider Awarding Quote and Authorizing 2014 Auditing Services
– Raymond F. Wager, CPA, P.C. – Chirdo

20.)

Info Only: Update on Department of Public Works, H.R.
Interviews – Chirdo

The H.R. interviews at the Department of Public Works have concluded and there was
approximately ninety-five percent (95%) participation. Craig Eckert, Commissioner of
Public Works, felt that it was a very positive experience for the staff to have their voice
heard. The section of the workforce that was feeling beaten down has been
reinvigorated. Recommendations based on the H.R. interviews will be received next
week.
21.)

Consider Authorizing Finance Director to Award Quote for HVAC
Services – Chirdo

Three (3) quotes were received for HVAC services and the Town will be going with the
lowest quote from Pipitone Enterprises.
7

TB Workshop December 15, 2014




Pipitone Enterprises:
Leo J. Roth:
Emcor:

$9,115.00
$15,474.00
$19,289.00

22.)

Consider Authorizing Budget Transfers – Chirdo7

23.)

Info Only: Rental Registry Update – Page

Councilman Page reported on the outcome of the Rental Registry Committee meeting on
Friday, November 28th. Applications for the rental registry would be filled out in Town
Hall and there would be an associated fee. The deadline each year would be September
15th so that it can align with the school year rather than the calendar year. Ideally the fee
would be broken into two (2) parts to separate out the inspection fee. An inspection by
the Building Department would occur every three (3) years unless there are any violations
requiring more frequent inspections. Some aspects still need to be established, such as
the fees and where the money will be collected. Presumably, the money should be
collected by the Town Clerk’s Office. Because it can be difficult to get in touch with
owners of rental properties in case of emergency, another question is whether the owner
or legal representative should have to come in every year or every three (3) years.
Councilwoman Zinck asked about doing the rental registry in phases rather than doing the
entire town all at once, but Terry Ekwell, Fire Marshal / Building Inspector would rather do
it all at once. The plan is to have a Public Hearing regarding the rental registry sometime
in February when the college students are back in school.
24.)

Info Only: Discuss Recreation Building Concept Plan & Set Date –
Moore

Supervisor Moore stated he plans to hold an informational meeting on the concept plan on
January 12th at 7:00 p.m. regarding the concept plan for the new recreation facility.
25.)

Info Only: Discuss Democrat and Chronicle, Bennett Loudon
Interview – Development in Henrietta (in paper on Sunday,
December 21, 2014) - Moore

The Town of Henrietta is the fifth (5th) in the series and Supervisor Moore believes it will
be a positive story and that it will make Henrietta really seem like we are at the crossroads
of Monroe County
26.)

Review Personnel Items – Moore

27.)

Consider Bills Payable – Moore

28.)

Old Business

Councilman Mulligan requested that a Resolution be added to Wednesday’s Town Board
Meeting recommending that the Monroe County Sheriff place additional police coverage
8

TB Worrkshop Dece
ember 15, 2014
on Calkins Road ba
ased on David Christen
nsen’s pressentation att the Novem
mber 19th T
Town
M
Board Meeting.
man Mulliga
an also talke
ed about additional covverage on n
nights and w
weekends att The
Councilm
Preserve
e Subdivisio
on. Councilwoman Zinck
Z
thou
ught she re
emembered
d talking a
about
including
g money in the budget for covera
age on weeekends in th
hat area.
Supervissor Moore informed th
he Town Bo
oard that Su
usan Eisel-B
Brown, Assiistant Perso
onnel
Analyst (Part-Time)), will be working Tuessdays, Thu rsdays, and
d Fridays.
On the motion
m
of Co
ouncilwoma
an Zinck, se
econded by Councilman
n Mulligan, the Town B
Board
motione
ed to enter into Executtive Session
n.
Ex
xecutive Se
ession – P
Personnel

Respectffully submittted,

Rebecca
a B. Wiesne
er
Town Clerk / Receiver of Taxe
es

9

