TOWN BOARD WORKSHOP
AGENDA
SEPTEMBER 29, 2014
4:30 P.M.



Two (2) Special Permits – October 1, 2014 – 6:45 P.M.
Two (2) Public Hearings – October 1, 2014 – 7:00 P.M.
Proposed Local Law No. 3 of 2014: A Local Law Establishing a Rental
Registry
Fiscal Year 2014 Preliminary Budget for the Town of Henrietta; Proposed
salaries for Elected Town Officers are Supervisor, $87,125.00;
Councilpersons, $19,149; and Town Judges, $30,909.
Monday, September 29, 2014 – 4:00 P.M.
North Forest Office Park Subdivision
1.) Approval of Minutes of the Preceding Town Board Workshop Meeting
September 15, 2014
2.) Approval of Minutes at Town Board meeting(s)
3.) Consider Authorizing SEQRA Declaration, Rezone from Residential R-1-15 to
Industrial, and Approve Special Permit No. 2014-044 – Campus Crest
Development (The Grove at Rochester) – Martin
4.) Consider Authorizing Supervisor to Sign Inter-municipal Agreement – Monroe
County Stormwater Coalition – Martin
5.) Consider Authorizing Supervisor to Sign Monroe County Community
Development Block Grant – Holiday Road and Summer Sky Drive Sanitary
Sewer Repairs Project – 2014 CDBG YR 39 Sanitary Sewer Slip Lining Project
Phase III – Martin
6.) Consider Accepting Dedication of Drainage Inlet and Storm Sewer – 2087 East
Henrietta Road – Martin
7.) Consider Awarding Request for Proposal and Authorizing Supervisor to Sign
Agreement – Town of Henrietta Bicycle and Pedestrian Trail Plan – Barton &
Loguidice, DPC – Martin
8.) Info Only: Code Update – Marshall
9.) Discuss Closing of Telco Road – Eckert
10.) Discuss Re-Advertising No Parking on Blueberry Crescent – Eckert

11.) Consider Re-Naming Recreation Committee – Parks and Recreation Advisory
Board – Kulik
12.) Consider Appointing Parks and Recreation Advisory Board Member – Kulik
13.) Info Only: Website Update – Taylor
14.) Consider Authorizing Building Permit Extensions – Ekwell
 86 Palamino Drive
 15 Green Aster Drive
15.) Discuss Special Event Permits – Ekwell
16.) Consider Declaring Item Surplus Material – Parks Department – Wiesner
17.) Info Only: Update on Dogs – Wiesner
18.) Info Only: Drainage Study Update – Minotti
19.) Info Only: Building Study Update – Minotti
20.) Info Only: Update on Taxpayer Assistance Checks – Chirdo
21.) Consider Authorizing Budget Transfers – Chirdo
22.) Discuss Property Cleanup of 63 Chiltern Road – Mastrella
23.) Discuss Riverton Golf Course Lease – Mastrella
24.) Discuss Rental Registry – Mastrella
25.) Discuss Permanent Residences at Days Inn – Moore
26.) Info Only: Zoning Board Update – Moore
27.) Review Personnel Items – Moore
28.) Consider Bills Payable – Moore
29.) Old Business

TOWN OF HENRIETTA
TOWN BOARD WORKSHOP MEETING NOTES
SEPTEMBER 29, 2014
The regularly scheduled Workshop of the Henrietta Town Board for Monday, September
29, 2014 was called to order at 4:00 P.M.
MEMBERS PRESENT
Supervisor Jack W. Moore
Deputy Supervisor Peter C. Minotti
Councilman William J. Mulligan, Jr.
Councilwoman Janet B. Zinck
Councilman M. Rick Page
Councilman Kenneth Breese
Daniel J. Mastrella, Town Attorney
Rebecca Wiesner, Town Clerk/Receiver of Taxes

GUESTS/RESIDENTS PRESENT
Phil Mancini
Linus Rautenstrach
John Schmitt

Monday, September 29, 2014 – 4:00 P.M.
North Forest Office Park Subdivision
Chris Martin, Director of Engineering & Planning gave a recap of the meeting that was held
between the owners of the North Forest Office Park Subdivision and himself, the Town
Supervisor, and Deputy Supervisor. The property is located at 250 Lucius Gordon Drive
and is zoned Industrial. Seven (7) or eight (8) years ago the office park was approved by
the Planning Board. The infrastructure was put in for all of the proposed buildings, but
only Building B was built. The applicant for the North Forest Office Park Subdivision
would like to subdivide the parcel to make the property more marketable so they can sell
it rather than lease. There was a general discussion between the Town Board, Chris
Martin, and Nate Gabbert, Town Assessor, about the issues with subdividing the parcel,
primarily regarding utilities and setbacks. The Town of Clarence has done something
similar before, but the question was raised whether it was something the Town of
Henrietta would want to do. Nate Gabbert, Town Assessor, said there weren’t enough
numbers to individually number each property on Lucius Gordon if it were to be subdivided
and that in the past when the Town had done something like this, there was a specific plan
submitted. Supervisor Moore recommended each entity have its own separate utilities
and thought there would need to be a Homeowners Association to address things like
parking lot maintenance. Gabbert said that subdividing part of the building is difficult,
but subdividing the parcel into separate buildings is possible, they would just have to
create a private drive instead of using Lucius Gordon for building addresses. Supervisor
Moore said that the Applicant would need to come back in with a specific plan and the
Planning Board would have to approve it for anything to move forward.
Pinnacle Homes / Dr. Burns Property
Since there was still time before the official start of the Workshop portion of the Meeting
at 4:30, there was also a discussion about Dr. Burns’ property on East Henrietta Road at
the Rush Border, zoned RR-1. The owner of the property wants to do a cluster type

TB Workshop September 29, 2014
development, Section 278. Section 278 enables applicants to decrease the size of a
single-family home lot in order to preserve more open space. It is also more desirable to
developers because the per lot costs without utilizing Section 278 are cost prohibitive.
Councilman Mulligan mentioned that the reason they intentionally made the lot sizes cost
prohibitive so it would slow development. The units would be duplex units with the lot
line running right down the middle. Because the lot line would be down the middle of the
duplex units, it wouldn’t be considered multi-family. The units would be three (3)
bedroom, single-family homes with a shared wall at the garage. Martin thought that the
owner is interested in selling them rather than renting. The owner has a deal with
Pinnacle Homes.
Goodburlet Road & East Henrietta Road
An additional proposed project discussed was a subdivision at Goodburlet Road & East
Henrietta Road that would go straight to Planning Board because rezoning isn’t required.
The parcel is forty plus (40+) acres and the project would involve building one thousand
six hundred square foot to three thousand square foot (1,600 s.f. – 3,000 s.f.) homes. It
would be a cluster type development under Section 278 based on R-1-15 Residential
Zoning. There would be a variety of different house styles including ranches and
colonials, etc. The Applicant does not want to dedicate the roads to the Town and there
would definitely be a Homeowners Association, but there would not be a clubhouse. The
entrance would be off of East Henrietta Road and there would be a one hundred foot
(100’) buffer between residents on Goodburlet and Road and all around the property.
Supervisor Moore stated the Applicant would need to hold a neighborhood meeting with
the nearby residents before anything moved forward with the project. Currently the
property is not under contract yet. Supervisor Moore also stated that he would also ask
the Applicant to put sidewalks in on East Henrietta Road as part of the project.


Two (2) Special Permits – October 1, 2014 – 6:45 P.M.

The Town Board had a discussion about the Campus Crest Special Permit Application that
was on Wednesday’s Agenda for decision only as the Public Hearing was closed.
Supervisor Moore felt that the Applicant did everything necessary to respond to previous
complaints about the project from the residents. Councilman Breese had a number of
concerns about the project. He was worried about the management company for the
project, Campus Crest Development and didn’t feel assured that the project would take
any students out of the neighborhoods. Councilman Breese also spoke about University
of Rochester students, who may live at the project, going down East River Road to access
it. Craig Eckert, Commissioner of Public Works, said that it wouldn’t be detrimental to
East River Road traffic because it would be in off-peak hours. Councilwoman Zinck
echoed Breese’s sentiment about the management company and mentioned that the
phone calls she has received have all been about the company, not the project itself.
Councilman Breese reported that Campus Crest Development’s stock is low and projects
haven’t been ready on time; he thinks the issues are caused by cash flow. Supervisor
Moore said the issues weren’t related to cash flow, but that there weren’t enough
subcontractors. Councilman Page felt that traffic flow wouldn’t be a problem or a
concern, but wasn’t completely decided on it. Supervisor Moore and Councilman
2

TB Workshop September 29, 2014
Mulligan said they would vote for it. Councilwoman Zinck said she would be voting
against it. Peter Minotti, Deputy Supervisor, reminded the Town Board that the previous
administration told the Applicants that if they made these changes, they’d entertain the
project. Supervisor Moore said he would rather see students in this gated community
than in Henrietta neighborhoods.
Supervisor Moore also mentioned that in the court case between the Town of Henrietta
and Atlas Cornhill, Inc. (Mike Spaan) regarding Local Law No. 3 of 2011 amending the
definition of “Family” in Henrietta Town Code §295-2, the Town of Henrietta won and the
definition of family includes up to three (3) unrelated individuals per dwelling unit. Daniel
Mastrella, Town Attorney, did not know if the decision could be appealed.


Two (2) Public Hearings – October 1, 2014 – 7:00 P.M.
Proposed Local Law No. 3 of 2014: A Local Law Establishing a
Rental Registry

The initial question from the Town Board to the Town Attorney was whether the local law
verbiage had been completed and whether it would be available to review before
Wednesday. Councilman Page wanted to clarify whether the wording said that rental
properties would be inspected “every 3 years” or “every 3 years or change of renter.”
Councilwoman Zinck suggested there be a consequence for not providing renter
information, but Daniel Mastrella, Town Attorney, and Terry Ekwell, Fire Marshal/Building
Inspector, agreed that the Town couldn’t legally do that. Mastrella said he did not have
a completed document yet and that the Town Board would need to decide what they’re
trying to accomplish so they could formulate what changes would need to be made to the
Greece Code so that it would work in Henrietta. Who should the rental registry apply to
and how should it be applied? Would it include apartments and dormitories as well,
because the Greece Code that is being used as a template is worded in a way that it would
include both apartments and dormitories. Supervisor Moore and Nate Gabbert
disagreed, stating they both recalled it specifically calling out single-family homes.
Mastrella felt that the wording in the Greece Code was too broad for what the Town Board
is trying to accomplish and that there was too much discretion by the building inspector.
Mastrella emphasized that this would be a first attempt at a rental registry and offered
many revisions to the Code:
- Inspection should proceed issuance of the permit
- 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. is too late for inspections; a search warrant can’t even be
executed after 9 p.m.
- If an owner refuses to allow the property to be inspected, the Town should be able
to apply for a warrant to inspect it.
- There has to be an appeal process written into the rental registry.
- Our definition of family needs to be reflected in the Code.
- It should describe commencement of proceedings.
- If the Town Board is targeting student renters, inspection schedules and permit
years should correlate with the school year, not the calendar year.
Mastrella added that at the Public Hearing on Wednesday it should be stressed that the
Town Board has every intent to address the concerns from residents about rental
3

TB Workshop September 29, 2014
properties and that there would be another Public Hearing before adoption of a Local Law
establishing a rental registry.
-

Fiscal Year 2014 Preliminary Budget for the Town of Henrietta;
Proposed salaries for Elected Town Officers are Supervisor,
$87,125.00; Councilpersons, $19,149; and Town Judges, $30,909.

Barbara Chirdo, Director of Finance, will be making a presentation on the Preliminary
Budget at Wednesday’s Meeting. She confirmed that the Preliminary Budget was
uploaded to the Town’s website for the public to access.
1.) Approval of Minutes of the Preceding Town Board Workshop Meeting
September 15, 2014
Councilwoman Zinck made a motion to approve the Town Board Workshop Minutes from
the September 15, 2014 Meeting and Councilman Page seconded the motion.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

2.) Approval of Minutes at Town Board meeting(s)
3.) Consider Authorizing SEQRA Declaration, Rezone from Residential
R-1-15 to Industrial, and Approve Special Permit No. 2014-044 –
Campus Crest Development (The Grove at Rochester) – Martin
The Town Board felt that they had talked about Campus Crest already and it didn’t require
any further discussion.
4.) Consider Authorizing Supervisor to Sign Inter-municipal Agreement –
Monroe County Stormwater Coalition – Martin
The Town Board was in favor of the Inter-municipal Agreement.
5.) Consider Authorizing Supervisor to Sign Monroe County Community
Development Block Grant – Holiday Road and Summer Sky Drive
Sanitary Sewer Repairs Project – 2014 CDBG YR 39 Sanitary Sewer
Slip Lining Project Phase III – Martin
Chris Martin, Director of Engineering & Planning said that this was a continuation of the
Community Development Block Grant approved back in July and that the program
4

TB Workshop September 29, 2014
involved making improvements to lower income neighborhoods. Supervisor Moore
ensured that the Agreement would be signed prior to the start of any work.
6.) Consider Accepting Dedication of Drainage Inlet and Storm Sewer –
2087 East Henrietta Road – Martin
This is the old Taco Bell site and the project already went to Planning Board. This is to
prevent drainage from going west towards the residential properties. An easement is
required to take care of the maintenance of the catch basin.
7.) Consider Awarding Request for Proposal and Authorizing Supervisor
to Sign Agreement – Town of Henrietta Bicycle and Pedestrian Trail
Plan – Barton & Loguidice, DPC – Martin
Request for proposals were received from Barton & Loguidice, DPC and Environmental
Design & Research, Landscape Architecture, Engineering & Environmental Services,
D.P.C. (EDR). Input regarding the selection was received from the selection committee
consisting of Jason Kulik, Director of Parks and Recreation; Roland Osterwinter; the
Genesee Transportation Council; RIT; and R. Bud Snyder, Conservation Board Member.
Chris Martin abstained on any input regarding the selection because he was employed at
EDR in the past. The Agreement involves seventy-four thousand dollars ($74,000.00)
being given to the Town from the Genesee Transportation Council.
8.) Info Only: Code Update – Marshall
Chuck Marshall, Deputy Commissioner of Public Works, gave a report on a number of the
recurring property maintenance issues within the Town:
- There are the same number of cars for sale at Legno’s property, nine (9) of which
are without plates. The lack of license plates on the vehicles was explained by Mr.
Legno who said that there is no longer a ten (10) day extension on license plates
being removed if the inspection expires.
- At the Nelson residence, the camper is back on the grass and the property owner’s
bench trial is scheduled for October 6th.
- 50 Faircrest Road is cleaned up.
- 48 Rouge Road is still good with nothing in the yard.
- The recurring issues at 152 Colonnade Drive have been resolved.
- VP Supply is addressing their issues.
- They are working on 31 Blue Avocado Lane.
So far this year, the Code Enforcement Officers have written one hundred and sixty-five
(165) violations and one hundred and fifty-one (151) lawns have been mowed, which is
lower than last year. Terry Ekwell, Fire Marshal/Building Inspector, also reported that
people living in homes without utilities is more prevalent than you’d think and that some
residents have been doing it for three to four (3 – 4) years. There are at least six (6)
properties that they know of right now in this situation. The biggest problem with
residents living in homes without utilities is the sewage.

5

TB Workshop September 29, 2014
9.) Discuss Closing of Telco Road – Eckert
Daniel Mastrella, Town Attorney, stated that they have to wait until October 3rd until the
public referendum has ended on the sale of the property and Dorschel is out of town so it
wouldn’t be finalized until the end of October.
10.)

Discuss Re-Advertising No Parking on Blueberry Crescent – Eckert

Craig Eckert, Commissioner of Public Works, suggested re-advertising the Public Hearing
for no parking on Blueberry Crescent to be at all times. The previous Public Hearing
advertisement was to have no parking on Blueberry Crescent from 7:00 a.m.to 4:00 p.m.
on school days, but since the previous Town Board Meeting, he has been contacted by
emergency responders stating there is also an issue with emergency vehicles getting
around the cul-de-sac. The Town Board was in favor of re-advertising.
11.)
Consider Re-Naming Recreation Committee – Parks and
Recreation Advisory Board – Kulik
Daniel Mastrella, Town Attorney, stated he would check to ensure the proposed name of
the Board is acceptable. He also suggested that the role of the Board be added to the
Resolution for Wednesday. Jason Kulik, Director of Parks and Recreation, said that after
the Recreation Committee met, they elected Gary Junge to be the Chair of the Board and
Rita Shuboney to be Vice Chair.
12.)
Consider Appointing Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
Member – Kulik
Councilman Breese stated that he knows Stella Wu as she lives four to five (4 – 5) houses
down from him and hosts an obstacle course in the neighborhood that’s a big hit with the
youth in the area.

(Councilman Mulligan left Town Board Workshop at 5:06 p.m.)
13.)

Info Only: Website Update – Taylor

Michele Taylor, IT Coordinator, reported that in Empire Center’s survey of over five
hundred (500) local government websites, including Henrietta, the Town’s website
received a 68% grade and that the biggest area that needs work for the website is
contracts. Supervisor Moore stated that Travis Anderson, Sr. Information Specialist at
the Rush-Henrietta Central School District, has told him that the Town’s website looks old
fashioned. Supervisor Moore also expressed concern that the speed has not improved on
the updated website. Councilman Breese said the new website was optimized for
Internet Explorer and that may be why it runs slower on some of the other internet
browsers.

6

TB Workshop September 29, 2014
14.)

Consider Authorizing Building Permit Extensions – Ekwell
 86 Palamino Drive
 15 Green Aster Drive

Councilman Breese made a motion to grant a six (6) month extension to 86 Palamino
Drive’s fence permit and a three (3) month extension to 15 Green Aster Drive’s building
construction permit for a covered porch and Councilwoman Zinck seconded the motion.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore
15.)

voting
Absent
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

Discuss Special Event Permits – Ekwell

Because of some of the last minute Special Permit Applications received for special events,
Terry Ekwell, Fire Marshal/Building Inspector, suggested that the Town Board grant the
Building Department authority to approve special event permits that don’t involve alcohol,
concerts, or public assemblies, as that is what the City of Rochester does. During the
previous week, Field & Stream came in at the last minute for a Special Permit for their
grand opening celebration because they were not familiar with our Code and they sent the
Application to the City of Rochester where it sat for two (2) weeks before being sent to the
Town of Henrietta. Supervisor Moore said that they couldn’t tell Field & Stream they
couldn’t squeeze onto the Special Permit Agenda.
16.)
Consider Declaring Item Surplus Material – Parks Department –
Wiesner
Rebecca Wiesner, Town Clerk / Receiver of Taxes, reported that there was one (1) item
from the Parks Department that was submitted for surplus. Craig Eckert, Commissioner
of Public Works, asked to add an additional item to be surplused so that it could be sent to
the Teitsworth Municipal Auction.
17.)

Info Only: Update on Dogs – Wiesner

Rebecca Wiesner, Town Clerk / Receiver of Taxes, reported that as of 9:00 that morning,
the Town Clerk’s Office has issued one hundred fifteen (115) new dog licenses since the
dog census started on Monday, September 22nd, bringing the total number of licensed
dogs in Henrietta to 4,983. It was also stated that the Town Clerk’s Office has issued
three hundred ninety-four (394) dog park permits.

7

TB Workshop September 29, 2014
18.)

Info Only: Drainage Study Update – Minotti

Peter Minotti, Deputy Supervisor, referenced a memo from Peter Vars, P.E., to the
Supervisor and Deputy Supervisor dated September 26, 2014. The Town of Henrietta
Tributary Studies is ten (10) days ahead of schedule. If the Town Board authorizes,
they’ll proceed tomorrow with the permitting process in a joint application with the
Department of Environmental Conservation (DEC) and the Army Corps of Engineers.
Minotti provided a map to the Town Board and stated that the red stop marks are areas
that need repair. Supervisor Moore asked how we could get access to repair tributaries in
areas the Town doesn’t have easements and whether we would need permission or if
there may be something in state law to grant them permission. Daniel Mastrella, Town
Attorney, said he’d look into it. Craig Eckert, Commissioner of Public Works doesn’t think
the Town will face any problems gaining access to repair the tributaries.
Minotti also gave an update on Lake Pamela and said that the Army Corps of Engineers
was contacted by Martin Janda about making it a US waterway.
19.)

Info Only: Building Study Update – Minotti

Peter Minotti, Deputy Supervisor, reported that all preliminary work by LaBella Associates,
D.P.C will be completed tomorrow as they are ahead of schedule and that the firm has
been excellent to work with.
20.)

Info Only: Update on Taxpayer Assistance Checks – Chirdo

Barbara Chirdo, Director of Finance updated the Town Board on the taxpayer assistance
checks by reporting that the debacle with the checks was caught early Thursday and
reissued checks were issued earlier that day. Nate Gabbert, Town Assessor, retrieved a
number of boxes of checks from the Post Office before they were delivered. Supervisor
Moore said that they tried to keep the debacle contained, but once it was posted on
Facebook, Jim Goodman at the Democrat & Chronicle caught wind of it and that’s how the
news found out.
21.)

Consider Authorizing Budget Transfers – Chirdo

The budget transfers proposed are regarding budget numbers for salt.
22.)

Discuss Property Cleanup of 63 Chiltern Road – Mastrella

Daniel Mastrella, Town Attorney, stated that he is creating a hook for the firewood stored
at 63 Chiltern Road and that Terry Ekwell, Fire Marshal/Building Inspector, would be able
to serve a notice to the property owners under Section 209 of Town Code for cleanup of
the property. The Town Board stated they would like the property owner to store the
firewood in a place that is not visible from the public highway. Supervisor Moore said that
the Town was making an attempt to clean up a problem that’s been around for ten (10)
years.
8

TB Workshop September 29, 2014
23.)

Discuss Riverton Golf Course Lease – Mastrella

Daniel Mastrella, Town Attorney, said that he sent a notice and a follow up notice to
Joseph DeMino about insurance coverage at the Riverton Golf Course and that he was in
violation of the Operating Agreement with the Town of Henrietta. Mastrella emphasized
that DeMino isn’t being obnoxious at all and is truly trying to comply with the Operating
Agreement criteria. However he has had more than thirty (30) days to rectify the issue
and it still is not completely resolved. Peter Minotti, Deputy Supervisor felt that the
excess liability coverage should have been issued by now and there’s a concern from
Supervisor Moore that DeMino does not currently have workers compensation coverage.
Mastrella advised the Town Board that in the short term they need DeMino to operate the
golf course, but the Board would be able to exercise the option to end the Agreement and
pay one (1) year of fees, which would be the cheap way out of the Operating Agreement
because the Town is four and a half (4-1/2) years into the Agreement that just
auto-renewed. There was also a discussion about the coverage requirements and
whether they were necessary, but Peter Minotti advised not to reduce the coverage
requirements. Supervisor Moore tried to help DeMino by having him call Minotti to advise
him in how to proceed, but DeMino never called. In addition to the insurance coverage,
there are twenty (20) dead trees on the course that need to come down. It is now up to
the Town Board what they would like to do with the issue.
24.)

Discuss Rental Registry – Mastrella

This was discussed earlier in the Workshop; there was not any further discussion.
25.)

Discuss Permanent Residences at Days Inn – Moore

Supervisor Moore reported that residents on Brooks Road have been complaining about
people living at the Days Inn on West Henrietta Road. Large groups of students living at
the Days Inn have been walking down West Henrietta Road to get to buses heading
towards RIT and some have been walking from the RIT Inn & Conference Center to
campus. Councilman Page remarked that Rush-Henrietta Central School District buses
are also stopping at the Days Inn to pick up children that must be living there. The
consensus was that there was nothing the Town could do to resolve the problem as they
couldn’t legally prohibit the rooms from being rented out on a monthly basis.
26.)

Info Only: Zoning Board Update – Moore

Supervisor Moore gave an update on the Henrietta Zoning Board, citing that some
procedural changes have been made to how Zoning Board Meetings are run so that they
will comply with the law. Donald Young, Attorney to the Zoning Board, mentioned to the
Supervisor that the Zoning Board was adjourning to the conference room during the
middle of Zoning Board Meetings and although it was technically an open meeting, as they
welcomed the public to join them, they weren’t legally able to leave once the meeting
started. Once the Board moved to the conference room they were no longer on the
9

TB Workshop September 29, 2014
Record as there is no recording equipment in the conference room. Councilman Breese,
having been on the Zoning Board previously, agreed with the concerns and the changes
made.
27.)

Review Personnel Items – Moore

28.) Consider Bills Payable – Moore
29.) Old Business
Cobblestone Housing, LLC had a neighborhood meeting about their proposed project at
3447 East River Road (Special Permit Application No. 2014-040, which is on hold). Now
that they’ve had the neighborhood meeting, the Applicant would like to discuss the project
with Supervisor Moore, Deputy Supervisor Minotti, and Chris Martin, Director of
Engineering & Planning, to determine what they need to do to proceed with the project.
Craig Eckert, Commissioner of Public Works, reported that he has written two (2) dozen
violations about things in the right-of-way and there was a discussion about the resident
who sued the Town for damage to his mailbox during a snow plow run.
The Regular Meeting of the Henrietta Town Board was moved for adjournment by
Councilman Page at 5:55 P.M. and was adjourned without objection.
Respectfully submitted,

Rebecca B. Wiesner
Town Clerk / Receiver of Taxes

10

