TOWN BOARD WORKSHOP
AGENDA
NOVEMBER 3, 2014
4:30 P.M.
Monday, November 3, 2014 – 4:00 P.M.
Code Publishers Meeting



No Special Permits
One (1) Public Hearing – November 5, 2014 – 7:00 P.M.
- Proposed Ordinance Amending Henrietta Town Code Section 273-6D to allow “no
parking anytime”: (I) Blueberry Crescent Cul-de-Sac at the end of Blueberry Crescent
1.) Approval of Minutes of the Preceding Town Board Workshop Meeting
October 14, 2014
2.) Approval of Minutes at Town Board meeting(s)
3.) Consider Authorizing Tax Certiorari Settlement – ESA P Portfolio, LLC – 700 Commons
Way – Gabbert
4.) Consider Authorizing Appointment of Board of Assessment Review Member – Gabbert
5.) Consider Reappointing Board of Assessment Review Member – Gabbert
6.) Consider Authorizing Placement of Delinquent Property Maintenance Bills on Tax Rolls –
Gabbert
7.) Consider Calling for Public Hearing – Rezoning Request – Ward Hill Road – Martin
8.) Consider Authorizing Supervisor to Sign Agreement With Monroe County - Wal-Mart &
Sam’s Club Traffic Signal Maintenance Agreement – Martin
9.) Consider Authorizing Change Order No. 2 – 2014 Sanitary Sewer Repairs Project – Martin
10.) Consider Accepting Dedication of Roadways, Storm Sewers, and Sidewalks – The
Preserve Subdivision, Section 7 – Martin
11.) Consider Accepting Dedication of Roadways, Storm Sewers, and Sidewalks – The
Preserve Subdivision, Section 8 – Martin
12.) Accept Dedication of Sanitary Sewers – Wintergarden Subdivision, Section One (1) –
Martin
13.) Info Only: Code Update – Marshall
14.) Info Only: Leaf and Brush Drop-Off Update – Eckert
15.) Info Only: Snow and Ice Update – Eckert

16.) Info Only: Martin Road Park Update – Kulik
17.) Info Only: Winterfest Event Update – Kulik
18.) Info Only: Online Recreation Program Registration Update – Kulik
19.) Consider Authorizing Selection of Managed Print Services – Taylor
20.) Info Only: Discuss Update to Website – Taylor
21.) Discuss Definition of Special Use Permit and Special Event Permit – Ekwell
22.) Discuss Sewer Billing Problems – Wiesner / Chirdo
23.) Info Only: Dog Update – Wiesner
24.) Info Only: Building Study Update – Minotti
25.) Info Only: Drainage Study Update – Minotti
26.) Consider Authorizing Special Use Permit Extensions – Heritage Christian Services - Minotti
- SP2012-047 to construct a 53 unit, multiple dwelling apartment building
- SP2012-048 to construct an apartment building 52’-2” in height, whereas Town Code
only permits a height of 40’
27.) Discuss Berm Problem on 86 Kinglet Drive – Minotti
28.) Consider Authorizing Director of Finance to Transfer Funds and Purchase NYS Bid Award
Vehicle – Articulated Wheel Loader – Highway Department – Chirdo
29.) Consider Authorizing Director of Finance to Write-Off Immaterial Account Receivables
Deemed Uncollectible – Eckert / Chirdo
30.) Consider Authorizing Budget Transfers – Chirdo
31.) Info Only: Rental Registry Update – Page
32.) Discuss East Henrietta Road Barn – Moore
33.) Review Personnel Items – Moore
34.) Consider Bills Payable – Moore
35.) Old Business
Monday, November 3, 2014 – 5:30 P.M.
Pinnacle Homes Meeting

TOWN OF HENRIETTA
TOWN BOARD WORKSHOP MEETING NOTES
NOVEMBER 3, 2014
The regularly scheduled Workshop of the Henrietta Town Board for Monday, November 3,
2014 was called to order at 4:00 P.M.
MEMBERS PRESENT
Supervisor Jack W. Moore
Deputy Supervisor Peter C. Minotti
Councilman William J. Mulligan, Jr.*
Councilwoman Janet B. Zinck
Councilman M. Rick Page
Councilman Kenneth Breese
Daniel J. Mastrella, Town Attorney
Rebecca Wiesner, Town Clerk/Receiver of Taxes

GUESTS/RESIDENTS PRESENT
John Colagrosso
Phil Mancini

Monday, November 3, 2014 – 4:00 P.M.
Code Publishers Meeting
Loriann Shura and Patty Palmieri-Phelan from General Code were present to speak to the
Town Board about what steps yet needed to be done prior to the adoption of the proposed
changes to the Henrietta Town Code. Patty Palmieri-Phelan stated that the next steps
would be 1) Prepare for final publication; 2) the adoption of Local Law, Schedule A; and 3)
Publication of the Code, and noted that some Towns choose to adopt the Code changes
prior to publication and some Towns do it in the opposite order. If the Town Board
decides to publish the changes prior to adoption, General Code requests that the changes
be adopted within ninety (90) days of publication. Peter Minotti reported that Monroe
County has signed off on four hundred and eight (408) pages thus far of the almost five
hundred pages (500) submitted.
Councilman Page reported that the final work on the Code update would be ready to be
turned over to General Code within hours. Don Young, Zoning Board Attorney, said that
he would have a redlined version of the Code in Microsoft Word ready to send to General
Code shortly. Once the final form of the proposed Code is received by General Code, it
will be published. Peter Minotti said that the Town will be requesting a total of twelve
(12) copies of the new Code and Councilman Page asked whether it’d be appropriate to
print four (4) or five (5) versions prior to adoption so that they may be reviewed one more
time. Supervisor Moore stated that the Town would need printed copies for residents to
review as well. Daniel Mastrella, Town Attorney, suggested having an electronic copy for
residents to review as well, which could be available through the Town website or burned
onto CDs.
Councilman Page asked the representatives from General Code whether the Town should
hold a series of Public Hearings, due to the quantity of proposed Code changes, or just
* Councilman Mulligan did not arrive until 4:25 p.m.

TB Workshop November 3, 2014
one. Supervisor Moore stated that there were one hundred and sixty-seven (167)
revisions and twenty-two (22) new Codes included in the Code update. The Town Board
Members were in agreement that the controversial Code changes should be talked about
early on in the Public Hearing process. Councilwoman Zinck expressed concern about the
quantity of changes and that it was a lot to do in one (1) Public Hearing. Donald Young,
Zoning Board Attorney, felt that it would be more work to break the proposed Code
changes up into smaller sections at this point and suggested holding a Public Hearing and
leaving it open for a few meetings or to hold special Workshops. Daniel Mastrella, Town
Attorney, added that the advertisement for the Public Hearing could be for certain sections
of the Code at a time and different topics could be discussed at different meetings. The
Town Board was in agreement that there should be at least two (2) Public Hearings.
Supervisor Moore said that the Code should be adopted prior to final publication and that
the current Code should be kept online until the new Code is adopted. Moore also
expressed interest in having the Public Hearings on the proposed Code changes at the last
meeting in December/first meeting in January if at all possible. Peter Minotti ended the
discussion by expressing gratitude of the good dialogue between the Town and General
Code over the last five (5) years that the Town has been working on the Code update.
(Brief intermission at 4:20 p.m.)
(Meeting re-opened at 4:30 p.m.)


No Special Permits



One (1) Public Hearing – November 5, 2014 – 7:00 P.M.
- Proposed Ordinance Amending Henrietta Town Code Section
273-6D to allow “no parking anytime”: (I) Blueberry Crescent
Cul-de-Sac at the end of Blueberry Crescent
1.) Approval of Minutes of the Preceding Town Board Workshop Meeting
October 14, 2014

Councilwoman Zinck made a motion to approve the Town Board Workshop Minutes from
the October 14, 2014 Meeting and Councilman Mulligan seconded the motion.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

2.) Approval of Minutes at Town Board meeting(s)

2

TB Workshop November 3, 2014
3.) Consider Authorizing Tax Certiorari Settlement – ESA P Portfolio, LLC
– 700 Commons Way – Gabbert
Nate Gabbert, Town Assessor, explained that the Resolution for Wednesday’s Town Board
Meeting was regarding a tax certiorari settlement with ESA P Portfolio, LLC, more
commonly known as the Extended Stay on Commons Way.
4.) Consider Authorizing Appointment of Board of Assessment Review
Member – Gabbert
This vacancy on the Board of Assessment Review was due to the unexpected passing of
Martha Reagan. The proposed new member of the Board of Assessment Review, Robert
Alouisa, has worked with the Department of Transportation for thirty plus (30+) years.
5.) Consider Reappointing Board of Assessment Review Member –
Gabbert
Robert Russo’s term on the Board of Assessment Review expired on September 30, 2014,
and he has requested reappointment. Nate Gabbert, Town Assessor, reported that
Russo has been a member who’s been present and often worked with Martha Reagan.
Russo is a real estate agent with Nothnagle Realtors.
6.) Consider Authorizing Placement of Delinquent Property Maintenance
Bills on Tax Rolls – Gabbert
These are properties within the Town of Henrietta that have received invoices from the
Finance Department but haven’t paid. Many of the bills are for lawn mowing charges.
Three of the larger bills on the list to be added on to the tax rolls are the property cleanups
at 48 Rouge Road, 50 Faircrest Road, and 3012 East Henrietta Road. Supervisor Moore
said that the original invoices for those properties were mailed return receipt and it’s been
verified that the owners received the bills.
7.) Consider Calling for Public Hearing – Rezoning Request – Ward Hill
Road – Martin
Chris Martin, Director of Engineering & Planning, reported that the Applicant for the
rezoning request on Ward Hill Road would be coming in at 5:30 as part of the Pinnacle
Homes Meeting. Martin explained that the parcel is currently zoned RR-2 because there
isn’t any sanitary sewer, but because sanitary sewer will be added, they want to change to
RR-1 zoning. The Town Board was reserving their decisions on this until after the 5:30
meeting.
8.) Consider Authorizing Supervisor to Sign Agreement With Monroe
County - Wal-Mart & Sam’s Club Traffic Signal Maintenance
Agreement – Martin

3

TB Workshop November 3, 2014
This is a maintenance agreement for the traffic signal at the intersection of Marketplace
Drive and the main driveway entrance to Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club. It’s a renewal of an
agreement from ten (10) years ago. The Town bills Wal-Mart and Sam’s Club, so there is
no cost to the Town.
9.) Consider Authorizing Change Order No. 2 – 2014 Sanitary Sewer
Repairs Project – Martin
Chris Martin, Director of Engineering & Planning, reported that the Resolution for
Wednesday’s Town Board Meeting is to request additional funds for sanitary sewer lateral
work on Holiday Road. Mike Catalano in the Drainage/Sewer Department has received
calls from residents with problems with their sanitary sewer laterals and this would solve
those problems. This would be something to be done prior to the sliplining project on
Holiday Road and Summer Sky Drive approved at the October 1, 2014 Town Board
Meeting. The proposed project is for twenty (20) sanitary sewer laterals total. Martin
reported that of the one hundred and fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00) in the
Engineering Department’s lateral budget, they’ve only used approximately sixty thousand
dollars ($60,000.00) of that so far this year.
10.) Consider Accepting Dedication of Roadways, Storm Sewers, and
Sidewalks – The Preserve Subdivision, Section 7 – Martin
11.) Consider Accepting Dedication of Roadways, Storm Sewers, and
Sidewalks – The Preserve Subdivision, Section 8 – Martin
Both items #10 and #11 are for dedication of roadways, storm sewers, and sidewalks on
York Bay Trail. The road is ready to take dedication and the binder has been down eight
or nine (8 or 9) years. Craig Eckert, Commissioner of Public Works, and Chris Martin,
Director of Engineering & Planning, have spent a lot of time making sure everything met
the Town’s specifications prior to dedication. Based on some of the problems the Town
has had with roadwork, the paving specifications have been updated to prevent similar
problems in the future.
12.) Accept Dedication of Sanitary Sewers – Wintergarden Subdivision,
Section One (1) – Martin
The proposed Resolution for Wednesday’s Town Board Meeting presented by Chris Martin,
Director of Engineering & Planning, is for the dedication of sanitary sewers at the
Wintergarden Subdivision located on Nightfrost Lane and Wintergarden Drive. The
sanitary sewer system has been in the ground for ten (10) years and the sewer line was
televised to check the condition prior to dedication. Martin reported that there is still
some minor work to be done on the roadway and storm sewers prior to dedication, but the
Town still holds approximately eighty thousand dollars ($80,000.00) in a Letter of Credit
for this project.

4

TB Workshop November 3, 2014
13.) Info Only: Code Update – Marshall
Chuck Marshall gave a status update on the issues the Code Enforcement Officers have
been addressing:
- Joe Legno on East River Road has more unlicensed vehicles than normal on
the property: currently, thirty-five (35). He is trying to get six (6) of them
off the property.
- Mr. Nelson has just one (1) trailer and one (1) truck in the driveway and is
coming into compliance.
- 50 Faircrest Road is continually being monitored and there are currently
vehicles parked in the grass. Councilman Mulligan inquired about some
truck tires and rims that he notices when he drove by, but they must’ve been
cleaned up prior to Code Enforcement’s visit to the property.
- 48 Rouge Road is being kept up and the owner is remodeling the interior.
- 82 Colonnade and 1710 Pinnacle have been boarded up due to break-ins.
- 2126 Lehigh Station Road has cleared away their debris.
- 63 Chiltern Road has the front and side of the house cleaned up. The wood
stored under the blue tarp is what they plan on using this winter. The
owners of the property have also expressed gratitude to the Town for their
attention to the matter.
- One hundred and sixty-two (162) lawns have been mowed throughout the
year, which is lower than it’s been in the past.
- One thousand, one hundred sixty (1,160) violations have been written.
- There are three (3) cases in Court later this evening.
- Currently the Code Enforcement Officers are focusing on missing house
numbers and parking regulations.
14.) Info Only: Leaf and Brush Drop-Off Update – Eckert
Craig Eckert, Commissioner of Public Works, reported that the Town residents are really
appreciative of the leaf and brush drop-off area. Jeff Wood has been the Town employee
working at the drop-off and he has reported that approximately three to four dozen (36 –
48) residents have come by each day so far.
15.) Info Only: Snow and Ice Update – Eckert
The winter parking rules went into effect on November 1st. And Eckert stated that the
dispatchers in the Highway Department will be switching over to twenty-four (24) hours
on November 15th due to the State contract that requires the Town have twenty-four (24)
hour personnel during the winter season. The Highway Department has four (4) new
dispatchers to train: two (2) for the C-shift and (2) for weekends. He has been receiving
an increased interest in residents wanting to help out by becoming wingpeople.

5

TB Workshop November 3, 2014
16.) Info Only: Martin Road Park Update – Kulik
Jason Kulik, Director of Parks and Recreation reported that the Highway Department and
the Parks Department have completed construction of the kickwall at Martin Road Park.
It has been painted Rush-Henrietta Central School District green color and in the spring,
logos will be added to the wall. Three (3) soccer fields were graded last week. Craig
Eckert expanded on the grading by stating that the Highway Department utilized dozers to
grade the three (3) soccer fields, which was close to five (5) acres. This new method of
grading is making the Department faster, but he’s received some kickback from other
employees in the Highway Department. Eckert expects that the work in Martin Road Park
will be completed by the end of the week.
17.) Info Only: Winterfest Event Update – Kulik
The date for the Recreation Department’s Winterfest Event will be Saturday, January 31st
from 11:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. and it will include sleigh rides around the fitness trail,
sledding, a snow sculpture contest, snowshoeing, and cross-country skiing. An ice rink
will also be created for broomball and/or skating. Registration will open up for the event
in the middle of December.
18.) Info Only: Online Recreation Program Registration Update – Kulik
Kulik updated the Town Board on the information gathered regarding online registration
for Recreation programs. Michele Taylor, IT Coordinator, contacted ReCPro, the
software used by the Recreation Department, about online registration and there would
be an eight thousand six hundred fifty dollar ($8,650.00) start-up fee and a fifteen
hundred dollar ($1,500.00) annual support fee if they utilized the online registration
through ReCPro. Supervisor Moore asked how many towns utilized online registration
and Kulik thought that it was most all of them, but he would be able to find out easily.
19.) Consider Authorizing Selection of Managed Print Services – Taylor
Michele Taylor, IT Coodinator, offered a proposal to the Town Board in which the Town
would utilize a single vendor for new printers and the old printers would be repurposed.
So instead of getting multiple bills for printers each month, the Town would only receive
one (1). The proposed vendor for approval is Just Document Solutions, which the Town
has utilized extensively in the past. Taylor stated that Just Document Solutions has
always been extremely helpful and that they have an excellent working relationship with
the Town. In addition to their good customer service, their quote had a lower monthly
fee and there was no minimum charge; the charges would be based solely on what the
Town used. The Managed Print Services agreement would include nine (9) new
machines and it would take approximately ten to fifteen (10 – 15) days to get the
machines after the agreement is signed.

6

TB Workshop November 3, 2014
20.) Info Only: Discuss Update to Website – Taylor
Taylor said that she met with Councilman Breese to talk about the other towns that use
BAS for their websites. Taylor was pleased that the modules we already use everyday are
included in BAS’s proposal. Both Taylor and Terry Ekwell, Fire Marshal/Building
Inspector, expressed their gratitude to BAS for their excellent customer service.
21.) Discuss Definition of Special Use Permit and Special Event Permit –
Ekwell
The draft proposal submitted by Terry Ekwell, Fire Marshal/Building Inspector, for Special
Event permits to be approved through the Building Department include the following:
- Outdoor vehicle sales at the Marketplace Mall and the Dome, to include, but not
limited to: cars, trucks, boats, RV’s and trailers;
- Outdoor merchandise sales or tent sales at local plazas, malls, or owner-occupied
business property;
- Sidewalk sales; and
- Grand openings of businesses.
All other types of events would require Town Board approval through a Special Use Permit.
Supervisor Moore couldn’t remember a time when the Town has had a problem or voted
no to any of the events under the proposed definition of Special Events. Councilman
Mulligan still wanted all events to go before the Town Board so he could know what’s
going on in Town. Supervisor Moore offered that Ekwell could give a report to the Town
Board each week of what Special Event Permits were approved. Councilwoman Zinck
thought it made sense and that bringing the proposed types of special events in front of
the Town Board was a waste of everybody’s time. Ekwell said that if there were any
questions regarding any of the Special Event Permits, they would be brought to the
Supervisor and that if alcohol is served, it would still go before the Town Board.
22.) Discuss Sewer Billing Problems – Wiesner / Chirdo
Rebecca Wiesner, Town Clerk / Receiver of Taxes, updated the Town Board on some of
the problems discovered with the sewer billing system:
- Many of the bills that are being calculated within the sewer billing system are being
calculated in amounts below the minimum charge.
- The 1” sewer lines (S1) were changed from a “minimum & overage” rate type to a
“multiflat” rate, causing the usage to not appear, which resulted in bills generated
for $0.00 erroneously.
- There is a general confusion regarding impact fees and there are discrepancies
between the actual units used to calculate the impact fee and the units entered into
the sewer billing program.
- A box was checked in the sewer billing system to remove prior consumption rates
after the bills were paid, deleting all previous history.
- The sewer billing dates have been irregular (sometimes 3 months between bills,
sometimes 2 months) and have not followed the quarter system laid out in the
7

TB Workshop November 3, 2014
Town Code.
- As sewer bills were returned from the post office, no attempt was made to correct
or update the addresses for at least 2 years. Tracey Wenzel from the Assessor’s
Office went through the stack of returned payments after the September billing and
people are finally getting their sewer bills, many of them for the first time since
they’ve owned the property.
Jennifer Miranda, Deputy Town Clerk, and Paul Reitschky have been vital in researching
and addressing many of the issues found.
23.) Info Only: Dog Update – Wiesner
Rebecca Wiesner, Town Clerk / Receiver of Taxes reported that as of 9:00 this morning,
the Town Clerk’s Office has issued 1,881 new dog licenses since the dog census was first
advertised at the beginning of July. 675 of those dog licenses are new licenses since the
dog census officially started on Monday, September 22nd, bringing the Town to a total of
5,522. Wiesner also noted that Carol Pennington and her dog census team have officially
canvassed the entire Town and they have completed second visits to residents that hadn’t
responded to the first notice. A third list is being generated and the dog census team will
be sending out letters and making phone calls to residents who still haven’t complied.
Pennington’s dog census team also handed out over 100 voter registration forms to
residents.
24.) Info Only: Building Study Update – Minotti
Peter Minotti, Deputy Supervisor, said that he expected to receive the report from LaBella
Associates on Monday, November 10th and that it would include sketches of proposed
additions and revisions to the Town Hall. The energy efficiency study will be conducted
from November 3rd – December 29th.
25.) Info Only: Drainage Study Update – Minotti
Minotti reported that Peter Vars of BME Associates would have the Desired Impact and
Construction Report done by 8:00 this evening, which would include an RFP. Minotti said
he would send the report to the Town Board the following morning.
26.) Consider Authorizing Special Use Permit Extensions – Heritage
Christian Services - Minotti
SP2012-047 to construct a 53 unit, multiple dwelling apartment
building
SP2012-048 to construct an apartment building 52’-2” in height,
whereas Town Code only permits a height of 40’
Minotti advised that the Application for Heritage Christian Services has not changed in
scope. The funding came in through the low income housing credit program and now
they’re ready to move forward with the project. The project location is by the Pieters
Family Life Center off Castle Road. Daniel Mastrella, Town Attorney, stated that the
8

TB Workshop November 3, 2014
Town Board had no obligation to extend the Special Permits and it was up to their
discretion.
Councilwoman Zinck made a motion to approve two (2) successive six (6) month
extensions for SP2012-047 and SP2012-048, to expire on July 5, 2015, and Councilman
Breese seconded the motion.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

27.) Discuss Berm Problem on 86 Kinglet Drive – Minotti
Minotti updated the Town Board on a residence at 86 Kinglet Drive where the owner hired
Brighton Landscape to remove the berm behind the house. The Planning Board
specifically requested the berm be added and it’s on the signed subdivision PLAT map.
The resident of the property said he was rolling the dice and that he wanted the berm
removed so that he could have a bigger backyard to be able to put in a pool. Joe Ardieta
of Vanguard Engineering is weighing in on the issue and the Town is currently waiting to
hear his opinion. Terry Ekwell, Fire Marshal/Building Inspector, mentioned that the
resident would still require a pool permit from the Town.
28.) Consider Authorizing Director of Finance to Transfer Funds and
Purchase NYS Bid Award Vehicle – Articulated Wheel Loader –
Highway Department – Chirdo
Barbara Chirdo, Director of Finance, mentioned that this was a topic sent to the Town
Board last week for their approval prior to the Town Board Meeting, because by ordering
the articulated wheel loader prior to November 1st, the Town would save $10,000.00.
Although the Board already approved the purchase, the Town Clerk requested that a
formal Resolution be read into the Minutes at Wednesday’s Town Board Meeting.
29.) Consider Authorizing Director of Finance to Write-Off Immaterial
Account Receivables Deemed Uncollectible – Eckert / Chirdo
Chirdo requested that $53.90 be written off as uncollectible regarding engineering review
fees at Jefferson Estates, Section 3.
30.) Consider Authorizing Budget Transfers – Chirdo
Chirdo reported that the budget transfers were to pay for the articulated wheel loader, as
mentioned in item #28, for work at Martin Road Park, and movement of the fees collected
9

TB Workshop November 3, 2014
for the dog park to pay for bags, etc. Councilman Page asked whether there were any
improvements for the dog park scheduled for the spring and there was a general
discussion about possibly putting up a pavilion.
31.) Info Only: Rental Registry Update – Page
Councilman Page reported that the Rental Registry Committee has met two (2) times so
far and they have looked at sample codes, including Buffalo’s and Brockport’s rental
registry. Daniel Mastrella, Town Attorney, now knows the direction the committee wants
to go and will put together sample legislation. Mastrella noted that there aren’t any
sample codes out there that are an exact match and that Brockport’s rental registry code
is probably the closest to what the Committee is looking for, but it’s sixty (60) pages long.
32.) Discuss East Henrietta Road Barn – Moore
Supervisor Moore discussed a barn on the east side of East Henrietta Road, north of Good
Shepherd Church. Terry Ekwell, Fire Marshal/Building Inspector stated that there are
holes in the roof and the side of the building and that he would send a letter to the owners
tomorrow requesting they come in for a Public Hearing on November 19th. Ekwell said
the barn needs to come down because it’s not safe.
33.) Review Personnel Items – Moore
34.) Consider Bills Payable – Moore
35.) Old Business
Councilman Mulligan asked about the status of the Dome property and how it was going
to affect the status of the proposed recreation facility. Supervisor Moore said that they
have verbal permission to put the new recreation facility in Memorial Park if need be.
The Regular Meeting of the Henrietta Town Board was moved for adjournment by
Councilman Page at 5:40 P.M. and was adjourned without objection.
Monday, November 3, 2014 – 5:30 P.M.
Pinnacle Homes Meeting

Respectfully submitted,

Rebecca B. Wiesner
Town Clerk / Receiver of Taxes

10

