HENRIETTA TOWN BOARD
AGENDA
SEPTEMBER 17, 2014
7:00 P.M.
Supervisor Moore
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
ORDER OF BUSINESS
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

6.
7.

8.
9.
10.
11.
12.

Roll Call
Prayer
Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag
Public Presentation/Agenda Items
Approval of Minutes of the Preceding Meeting(s):
September 3, 2014
On Motion of: Councilwoman Zinck Seconded by: Councilman Page
Miscellaneous Communications
Public Hearings:
Proposed Rezoning of Land Located at 3860 East River Road from
Residential R-1-15 to Industrial and Proposed Special Use Permit
Proposed Local Law No. 2 of 2014: A Local Law Establishing a Taxpayer
Assistance Program
Introduction of and Action Upon Local Laws, Ordinances, Resolutions
Reports of Standing Committees and Actions Thereon
Reports of Special Committees
Public Comment
Adjournment

RESOLUTION #17-206/2014
Authorize Accounts Payable
RESOLUTION #17-207/2014
Call for Public Hearing – Proposed Local Law No. 3 of 2014: A Local Law
Establishing a Rental Registry
RESOLUTION #17-208/2014
Authorize Supervisor to Sign Out-of-District Sewer Use Contract – 4161 West
Henrietta Road
RESOLUTION #17-209/2014
Consider Calling for Public Hearing – No Parking on Blueberry Crescent

RESOLUTION #17-210/2014
Declare Items Surplus Materials – Library / Commissioner of Public Works
RESOLUTION #17-211/2014
Acknowledge Donation – Henrietta Dog Park Supplies
RESOLUTION #17-212/2014
Acknowledge Donation – Recreation Youth Programs
RESOLUTION #17-213/2014
Authorize Budget Transfers
RESOLUTION #17-214/2014
Adopt Proposed Local Law No. 2 of 2014 – A Local Law Establishing a Taxpayer
Assistance Program
RESOLUTION #17-215/2014
Authorize Issuance of “Taxpayer Assistance” Checks
RESOLUTION #17-216/2014
Call for Public Hearing – Fiscal Year 2015 Preliminary Budget
RESOLUTION #17-217/2014
Appoint Conservation Board Member
RESOLUTION #17-218/2014
Authorize Personnel Items

PURSUANT TO CALL A REGULAR MEETING OF THE TOWN BOARD OF THE
TOWN OF HENRIETTA, COUNTY OF MONROE, STATE OF NEW YORK, WAS DULY HELD
AT THE HENRIETTA TOWN HALL, 475 CALKINS ROAD, HENRIETTA, NEW YORK ON
THE 17th DAY OF SEPTEMBER, 2014 AT 7:00 P.M.
MEMBERS PRESENT
Supervisor Jack W. Moore
Councilman William J. Mulligan, Jr.
Councilwoman Janet B. Zinck
Councilman M. Rick Page
Councilman Kenneth Breese
Daniel J. Mastrella, Town Attorney
Rebecca B. Wiesner, Town Clerk / Receiver of Taxes

(SILENT PRAYER)
(PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Is there anybody in the audience that would like to speak on an agenda item? If they
would please come forward. Could I have the approval of the minutes for the
September 3, 2014 meeting?
COUNCILWOMAN ZINK
Mr. Supervisor I’d like to move approval of the Minutes of the September 3, 2014
Meeting.
COUNCILMAN PAGE
Second.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Would you please call the roll?
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

3

Application No. 2014-044

TB September 17, 2014
3860 East River Road, Campus Crest Development
(The Grove at Rochester), to construct 225 suite style
unit apartment buildings for R.I.T. students, in a
Residential R-1-15 Zoned District, Tax Account No.
174.02-1-20, or as more particularly described in
plans on file in the Town Clerk’s Office.

SUPERVISOR MOORE
We have two Public Hearings tonight. The first Public Hearing is a proposed rezoning of
land located at 3860 East River Road from Residential R-1-15 to Industrial and a
proposed Special Use Permit. Would the applicant please come to the microphone and
explain who you are, what you want to do, and why you want to do it.
JOHN CARUSO, PASSERO ASSOCIATES
Oh you don’t want all of those answers. Hi, I’m John Caruso from Passero Associates
and with me tonight is Alex Eyssen from Campus Crest, Jess Sudol from my office and
Herm Tomer also from Campus Crest. We’re here to request the Town Board to
consider rezoning a seventy-three (73) acre parcel of land for the use of some student
housing. This parcel has been proposed for development before, and there was some
input from the community and from this Board, that we decided to remove the
Application and go back and see if we could redo this, and so tonight I’m going to give
you an abbreviated version of what the proposal is. We have had numerous
neighborhood meetings, some better attended than others, and so we continue to have
them until we could get as many people as we could to them. But our story is the
same, it’s still the same product, it’s still the same project, it’s just we’ve made some
design changes that we want to share with you quickly and then we’ll open it up to
public comment. Is that okay?
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Please.
JOHN CARUSO, PASSERO ASSOCIATES
All right. So it’s still a two hundred and twenty four (224) unit project, can I go over
there and talk?
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Yes.
JOHN CARUSO, PASSERO ASSOCIATES
It’s still a two hundred and twenty four (224) unit project except one of the things that
we heard from the community before is that they did not like this project accessing out
on to East River Road, and so the project has, it took us over a year, but we’ve
acquired property to relocate the driveway out to Bailey Road. The next thing that we
wanted to do was to locate the project further away from East River Road and so we
did that by moving the project two thousand feet (2,000’) into the center of the site.
2

TB September 17, 2014
It’s a seventy-three (73) acre parcel and so we are going to be using twenty (20) acres
in the middle of the site to construct our project and the thing that the horizontal
separation that we do from moving it off of East River Road also gives us a vertical
elevation difference of about forty to fifty feet (40’-50’). And so with our buildings
being forty feet (40;) tall and the ground elevation changing into the site getting lower
by forty to fifty feet (40’-50’), there’ll be spots on East River Road where you will not be
able to see our project because it will be covered by the hill. And I think that one of
the biggest design changes we made in addition to relocating the project access is also
moving it into the site and taking advantage of that grade change. Another thing that
we wanted to do through our application process was account for the balance of the
use of the seventy-three (73) acres. If we’re going to use twenty (20) to do our project
then the balance of about forty to fifty (40-50) acres, you know, what is going to
happen to that? And we didn’t have that answer the last time. This time what we did
is we accounted for it’s use to the extent practical by code for Industrial. And then we
generated traffic and drainage and all the types of impacts associated with an Industrial
use and we put that into our documents, checked it for drainage, traffic analysis, and so
on. And so really our materials became more thoroughly vetted. And then lastly to talk
about what we did in our application is we continued to make sure that the operation of
Campus Crest project is as what we said it would be and that is that there’s a resident
monitor in each building, and that there is two (2) on-site property managers, along
with a litany of all other lease requirements and operations of gated community secured
access, quiet time and all of those behavioral modifications that we promised that
would come with this project. And so, that’s the short version of our presentation. We
will be happy to answer questions, if they come up or from the Board.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
The first, thank you John. The first question I would have is, we’ve had a lot of issue
here in Henrietta, especially in our neighborhoods, of student behavior by RIT students,
where they don’t mix real well with our residents and the residents are very concerned
about it. Could you explain how you’re going to be able to monitor student behavior,
so that it will be a better place for them to live and a better place for Henrietta
residents to have them housed?
ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
Good evening, my name is Alex Eyssen, Vice President of Development of Campus
Crest. I know at least four (4) of us have met previously, I was here last year on this
process. maintaining and operating the student housing, property is a full time job and
with over fifty-thousand (50,000) residents, majority of which are students living in our
property, we’re the second largest in North America now, it is an on-going, on-going
daily issue. So what we have found is through ten (10) years of experience, you have
to keep changing things, ratcheting things up. At the end of the day you can’t take a
property of this size and this scope and let it turn into the party place, or the dangerous
place, because guess what? No one wants to live there, the property goes down, it
becomes a horrible investment. So, one, we have a lot of people and investors and
3

TB September 17, 2014
partners who want to make sure we’re not that place. I was just speaking with the
University and I think there’s a representative here that will talk about that. We want
to have, although we have no agreements with the University, for the Record, we want,
if we are approved, to have an open dialogue with the University and any other
interested parties because we have properties where if you have something spring up,
you have to jump on and you have to address it, and that’s all we do. I don’t, like I
said earlier in a neighborhood meeting, we don’t build malls on the weekends, I don’t
build strip centers, just student housing. That’s where the majority, we have I guess
almost a thousand (1,000) employees; the majority of them are at the property level.
So when you have rules, you have regulations, you have open dialogue with law
enforcement, with the University, you address hotspots. And student housing is all
about addressing hotspots. And if you don’t, you have a big fire and unfortunately
there’s situations where there are big fires and from where there’s other group, other
buildings and so you just have to continue to work on that. So that’s what we do and
you know, we are intimately familiar with the concerns that were raised a year even a
year ago. And even before we came public, we were actually watching this. So, I’m
aware of things that have happened in neighboring properties, I’m aware of what goes
on in neighborhoods, and we want to be a solution then. And I’ve said it earlier, I hope
by having a purpose built student housing property here, we actually draw some of
those student residents out of some of the areas that really aren’t built or designed for
them. Residence neighborhoods that were single family that need to probably stay
single family, and not become essentially a student housing neighborhood complex. So
we think we can be a partial solution, maybe not the entire solution, I think it’s a bigger
macro issue that we probably all need to keep elaborating on but now hopefully we
can, we’re very aware of the Town, the neighbors, and the University’s on-going
concern for their students which we share in that, so that’s just, that’s what we do.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
And I’ve had some questions about a marketing study that you did that felt that you
would have the students to be able to fill this facility. It’s been questioned through
some RIT representatives that you weren’t willing to share that information with them
and would you share that information with us as to what you found in your marketing
study?
ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
I will. That was mentioned to me earlier that, that we had declined their request, and
maybe that was last year. It, there hasn’t been a request to me since then, but I’ll talk
with the University about that. I will say that that’s our secret sauce. If I release it to
an institution whether it be this group or the University, it’s subject to any Freedom of
Information Request and all the competitors that I know that are currently looking for
land here, everyone who is in the student housing business is circling this area and
that’s because there is a strong demand. Not all of them will get here, but when we
look at enrollment, we look at on-campus beds, we look at off-campus beds, we look at
available, we look at the rents, a lot goes into underwriting a project of this size. And
4

TB September 17, 2014
it’s not just what I say, it goes to other people in the company and then it goes to our
joint venture partners, it goes to lenders, it goes to third (3rd) parties who scrutinize it,
so overall, without giving you my recipe, we feel very comfortable about making a
significant investment here, that this number of beds we’re proposing will be easily
absorbed. Even if the University enrollment stays flat, even if the University enrollment
dips a few points, it doesn’t move the needle, what we believe to be our occupancy.
We underwrite very conservatively, and we feel very strong about it. Even in a lot of
the concessions we’ve made that really add a significant financial impact to the project
when you talk about building a road that size, pulling utilities further in, those sort of
things, we still feel very strong about it. So, it’s a question I get a lot. I don’t give out
the recipe, but you also don’t get to be the second (2nd) largest in North America by
missing on markets. And, knock on wood, we think we’ve been pretty successful in that
and so we’ll continue to watch it. And even after we’re up and running, we have to
continue to watch what the market’s doing and what incentives we have to do.
Somebody asks what happens if the sky falls and nobody wants to live there. Well, it’s
such a big property I have to make people want to live there. I have to do whatever it
takes, spend the amount of money and make it such that people, I can’t just walk away
from it.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
It’s also been brought to my attention by an RIT official that you’ve had some
difficulties in Maine and Louisville and could you expound upon that because…
ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
Sure.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
…they don’t feel that you’ll have the ability to be able to manage your facilities properly.
ALEX EYSSEN, CAMPUS CREST
Sure, the, a couple of these, yeah those are, those are examples that are hot in the
press right now, both of which I’m personally involved in, so. Louisville, University of
Louisville we actually have an affiliation agreement with the University and like many,
many student housing properties this year, we failed to open all of our buildings on
time. And we had residents that were displaced and living in hotel rooms. It’s, you
know, if you can read today’s newspaper and see an article about another University
that had their own on-campus housing delays.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
We have a problem right here in Rochester…
ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
Yeah.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
…at the University of Rochester.
5

TB September 17, 2014
ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
Yeah, so…
SUPERVISOR MOORE
We’re well aware of that.
ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
We had that happen in a couple of our properties this year. It’s a macro issue. When
you have multi-families exploding past couple of years, you can’t find skilled labor and
then you compound it with weather and we were one of a dozen properties that I just
track that had problems. So that was Louisville. Orono is an on-going property we
have where we have on-going situation with non-residents, and some residents, who
choose to come to our place and, and have events. You can look at news articles, they
flash mobbed us, I mean it’s like when you see a mall and people just show up at a
certain time. We’ve been the victims of that, so we have to continually work with some
private security, the University, the township, and it’s, I was on a conference call today
about it. So it’s, these are very real situations, so when someone says Louisville or
Orono, it, I can give you an email string of everybody from the CEO down that is
actively monitoring, because it’s, even though we have over eighty (80) properties, you
still don’t want to have two (2) or three (3) or four (4) or five (5) that get brought up at
public hearings and you know so we have to, we have to work on those. And so both
of those are getting a lot attention and we just learn from those and we adapt. I
mean…
SUPERVISOR MOORE
You’re total investment in this project in our community?
ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
Well, it, I’m going to say conservatively between twenty-five to thirty million dollars
($25,000,000.00-$30,000,000.00). I think at the end of the day it will probably be…
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Be careful, the Assessor’s in the room.
ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
I know.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Ok.
ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
Well and, and I’d be careful because I don’t have any current performant in front of
me, that’s a whole other group that that runs that, but it’s, it’s a sizable, sizeable
investment. We haven’t asked for any tax incentives or tiffs or anything.
6

TB September 17, 2014
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Are you looking for any kind of tax abatement like most places like this do?
ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
We are not.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Okay, thank you. Is there anybody from the Board that has a question?
COUNCILWOMAN ZINCK
Yeah, I have another question for you. I know one of the concerns along with the
traffic on East River Road, before the change in the plan, was the safety of students
living in your facility and walking down East River Road to get to school. Now are there
sidewalks all the way that will get them to RIT?
ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
Well I, our, the road we have planned to go to Bailey is our private drive. So, you
know, we feel comfortable with the amount of traffic there and then once we get out,
I’d have to ask Jess on the actual traffic flow and on John Street and the sidewalks.
We’re not proposing any off site….
COUNCILWOMAN ZINCK
I know these sidewalks fall on John.
ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
Without looking at the bigger plan, I just don’t know the answer to that. You know
since RIT’s in the room, there’s a great road that cuts right up and I’d love to work with
the University to have some sort of pedestrian access for our residents and any future
residents in this area and we’ll continue to hope and have some dialogue, but right now
all we can do is control how residents get to a public roadway safely. And I think
changing the road is a significant event.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
How far did you change the location of where your buildings are from East River Road
from where they were fronting on East River Road? How many linear feet?
ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
Two thousand (2,000).
SUPERVISOR MOORE
So you’re almost a half mile away from East River Road.
ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
Yes it is significantly, and, and then again that helps with the distance, that helps with
the what we took away with a lot of concerns and it was a, it was a significant learning
7

TB September 17, 2014
event last year when I was here and I think we hopefully incorporated all, or at least
most of what we could, but yeah, you don’t have the site-line issues now, you don’t
have the traffic coming out and making the right hand turn and, you know obviously
they go up and down Bailey it’s one direction I think, we think they’re going to turn
right and get to John and head north and, so…
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
What is the criteria for dismissing a student from the facility if there is bad behavior?
ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
You want to dismiss students when you have bad behavior. One resident is not worth,
let’s see, kind of a rotten apple analogy, so we, we have a three (3) strikes you’re out
and I think I discussed this some last year and you may remember Kevin Seeley, Vice
President of Operations, who was here last year who is still with us. You know when
our management shows up, you know we, the general manager who actually lives on
the property, you know they’re not working at midnight, somebody else probably has
their shift, they only work certain nights of the week. But whoever that morning is
taking over from the night person gets the hand-off of the report that says in unit 303
we had a late disturbance call at three (3:00) in the morning, so that generates a letter
to the resident and their surety who’s on the lease, which typically is the parents. So
they get notified. Now that’s strike one (1). And then we have a progressive
sanctioning process to where we actually remove a, a student that’s paying rent for one
(1) unit or one (1) bedroom is not worth the impression, or what could happen to a
property. So you know, we have to do our form of removing and evicting a lot of
students because of that.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
In a facility of this size, how many different management security people would be on
the premise, you know in a twenty-four (24) hour period?
ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
Well, we start with, I think what we generally have our two (2) full time staff persons.
Every property will have a general manager/sales manager who live, we up fit the, the
residential units above the club house, which if you look at the club houses below that’s
what fronts the pool, the volleyball court, and the pavilion. So that’s really where all of
your energy is concentrated. So that’s actually where we put our, our full time
employees who live there. So even though they are not on the clock they’re living
upstairs from the clubhouse overlooking what you might consider ground zero. In
addition, we have another level of part-time employees. Now, two (2) is the minimum.
We may actually, we have some properties that have four (4) and five (5) full-time
employees that choose to live with us, even down to maintenance employees. And
then within each building, much like a dorm has a resident assistant, we have a
community assistant and then these are part-time, kind of like a work study if you will,
who live in the building. So, they’re our eyes and ears in building number seven (7) of
what’s going on. I will say these properties really self-police. If you look at student
8

TB September 17, 2014
housing bad press, whether it’s us or anybody else, a common theme you don’t really
extrapolate from all of the articles is a lot of times it’s an outside influence that’s coming
on to the property. Residents generally don’t want to make a mess and have a party
where they live. So you find that residents go elsewhere. And I think in this city, in
this township there’s, there’s been examples of properties that have had that
reputation, they move around. So our properties police pretty well. What we have to
do is make sure we don’t have non-residents who are coming in after hours after the
pool is closed trying, the Orono situation. And that’s just something that you have to
manage. That’s where the security gates come in, that’s where the hours come in
effect, that’s where the security cameras that we typically install around the club house
and the common areas come into effect. And so it is an on-going event that we don’t
take lightly. But to give you a number seven (7) or eight (8), I would underestimate
because this building, so you imagine every building has a C.A., you’ve got a general
manager, sales manager, probably an assistant sales manager, if we do have an A.G.M,
Assistant General Manager, in training, maintenance, so it’s…
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
With a gated community what’s the procedure for a non-resident to gain access to the
facility?
ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
Well, what we typically do is every property we manage it differently. Some gates we
close at different hours. Our general rule of thumb is, when we open a property, is
when the club house is open, the gates are open. Now visitors are still supposed to
come by and check in the club house and when you walk in the club house, it’s like a
hotel concierge. The first thing you walk into is the row of desks and that’s where you
check in before you can kind of get into the property, get into the pool, these sort of
things. When the club house is closed, that’s typically when we close the gates to the
parking area. And residents have to have a key-pad. You figure out pretty quick when
you have six hundred (600) residents, you’ll have five hundred and fifteen (515) cars
every resident’s registered a car. You know really quick if all of sudden you have fifty
(50) extra cars. I mean, it’s like going to pull up to the store you go to every week, you
can tell when that store is busy or not and that’s how we are about our properties.
When you’re living there, you know there are more people here. And so we really have
to watch and police that because people who want to come in and use the pool, will try
to show up and use the pool, and we just can’t have that. We can’t be the magnet.
This, we want our residents to pay for security, pay for safety, pay for their own
privacy, have their guests over reasonably, but not be the hub where people feel like
they can inundate us, like in Orono and in other places where we’ve had to try to really
clamp down. And so that’s where, security changes, I mean we’ve had properties that
have full time security, we have night security in some, we have some that have armed
security because of a certain area of town we’re located in, so it’s evolving. So it’s
difficult for me to get up here and say here’s my operational plan for the Grove of
Rochester because it will change within the first forty-eight (48) hours of opening and
will continue to change as we learn and adapt. It’s a, it’s a fluid event.
9

TB September 17, 2014
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
That’s all I got.
COUNCILMAN BREESE
About how many of these complexes do you own or manage within the country?
ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
We just opened our newest round of 2014 projects, so that moves our number up to,
we had seventy-eight (78) before and we added eleven (11) more, so, we’re up to
eighty-nine (89) I guess. That ranges everywhere from Orono, Maine all the way out to
Ellensburge, Washington down to Abileen, Texas, where I’m from, we acquired a town
home property in the past year, we’re going through that process, we opened two (2)
properties in Canada; that’s made us the second (2nd) largest by number of units.
We’re a public (inaudible) and so with that size you get a lot of experience, exposure,
and we don’t manage any we we don’t develop. I know a lot of properties have third
party managers and they flip and flop. We don’t. We’re a one stop shop, so the same
development company will then turn it over to a general contracting company that will
oversee local contractors and whoever else bids for the work. And then our operations
company, we’re all headquartered out of Charlotte in the same floor, so for example
yesterday we had a corporate event. There’s an Orono situation, the CEO and
somebody walks up to me while we’re, this is no lie, getting a funnel cake and they
said, this has turned into this, we need you to go talk to this person and go there. So
I’m actually going there next week. So, it’s, it is very real time because we started out
small ten (10) years ago and a lot of the same people that were with the company way
back when, we’re still with it. So we treat it like a small family business even though
it’s large now. So, you can get an, you can send an email to the CEO tonight and talk
about what I said. I mean it’s that real time, and so we have a lot of properties, and
that’s….
COUNCILMAN BREESE
So, in the neighborhood of over ninety (90) from the sound of it?
ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
Oh, over ninety (90) to answer, over ninety (90) with over fifty thousand (50,000)
students.
COUNCILMAN BREESE
Without giving up your secret recipe, so to speak, when, through the experience over
ten (10) years did you say?
ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
Yes, sir.

10

TB September 17, 2014
COUNCILMAN BREESE
When you come into a community or into a situation like this, do you have an idea as to
where your students are coming from? In other words, what effect do you have on
those students who may be renting outside of the campus as opposed to those who are
renting on the campus?
ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
Sure. What we have found is most the residents that live in off-campus purpose built
housing, they’re also in the market for other off-campus housing. There are residents
that want to live on-campus and have that on-campus experience. But there are also
those residents that want to live off-campus. So we really are experts at also looking at
the off-campus situation. Now, I know with the University, I know what their housing
situation is, I feel comfortable I do, I should say, and I also have a really good
understanding of off-campus housing market because that’s who most of the residents
are jumping between. But then I also look at what we call a shadow market, and that
is the harder to identify properties that, that’s the neighborhood that has a high
presence of students, which I’ve personally walked. We look at other smaller properties
that have a heavy concentration of students. And so we, when you factor those in and
you come up with, what we come up with is a capture rate. That is of all of the
students that are living somewhere in this community, we want to capture a certain
percentage of those students to make a project viable. And here, it’s a pretty low
percentage of what we believe we have to target and get to. I don’t believe I’m going
to get a hundred (100) residents from different properties to just move in with us
overnight. It will be smaller. There will be some on-campus, but again I’m not bringing
six hundred (600) new residents. They’re already here. They’re living somewhere.
They’re not homeless. And so we just hope through our marketing and what we offer
that, and our price point, that we will appeal to the students that, that want to live
here. They choose to want to live in a house, and we have had a lot of conversation
tonight about the single family homes that have turned into student housing. I think
that we will pull some of that. I think when you see, that’s another hot spot, when you
see a large presence of off-campus housing that’s transformed to single family
residence, that’s in my eyes why you need more purpose built housing. That said, I
realize there will always be residents that will choose to want to have the house
experience and the backyard. I lived in one, I mean I’ve lived in all scenarios from the
dorm, to this, to the house. But we do look at where they’re coming from, where
they’re, we look at also where they’re shopping, where we think they’re working, what
their normal commute is. So it’s kind of understanding their needs and where they’re
going to be and where they’re going to be going.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Okay, thank you. Anybody else?

11

TB September 17, 2014
ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
Thank you.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Is there any, we’ll open up to the public now. Is there anybody that would like to
speak on this application? Please come to the mic and identify yourself.
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
Mike Stafford, 32 Essex Drive. Just had a couple of questions because I, I read the
Minutes from last year, April 3, 2013. Just had a couple of questions, and I, and you hit
on it about the extra land, but I didn’t, I didn’t really under, you didn’t say if you were
going to sell the land off for industrial use, or what your plan is with that extra land.
The other question I had is, you, back last year when you were going for, when you
were at the Hearing, Councilwoman Zinck asked about if it was exclusively for students.
You present it like it is, but there, but right here you said it wasn’t exclusively for
students. So I have, you know, a question about that. What it could eventually
become? You know everybody think it’s a student, you know, five (5) years down the
road it could be, it could be a housing complex for all we know, or apartment complex,
excuse me. You know, you hit on the tax abatement again, that was one of my
questions. The response back a year ago was, “No, we plan to pay our fair share.”
Well, we know a lot of companies what their, what they consider their fair share is
different than what, what the Town Board or what city government would think their
government, or their fair share is, so I just want to make sure it’s one hundred percent
(100%) of what the assessment is. The other question that I had was basically, you
know I, and it wasn’t asked, it wasn’t asked last year and I was kind of surprised when
I went through the Minutes; is this going to be built by, you know, this community,
Henrietta? Monroe County has a lot of people in the building trades. Is this building, is
this, are these going to be built by, what percentage is going to be built by local
building, local labor I should say? You know we got plenty of people unemployed in the
building trades in this area, so that’s a, that’s a big, I was surprised, I was surprised it
was never asked last year. We know when they built that other complex student
housing across from RIT there was, on John Street, there was some issues with, with
people, illegal people working there, so some questions I have.

ALEX EYSSEN, VICE PRESIDENT OF DEVELOPMENT, CAMPUS CREST DEVELOPMENT
In response to the first question, the extra land, we still have no plans. If you recall
last year, the, we’re purchasing this property from a family that’s owned for one
hundred (100) years and as a condition of their sale, they wouldn’t break it up. I didn’t
need the full seventy-three (73) acres. We’re not in a land bank business, we’re not in
the farming business. If somebody came to us in six (6) months, two (2) years, three
(3) years and said, “Hey we’d like to talk to you,” we’d be happy to. We have no
agreements or negotiations or anything to sell the parcel. One of the criticisms we
received last year was that we were only zoning just the portion we needed and what
12

TB September 17, 2014
would happen to the balance. That’s why now our application is, we’re asking for the
same continuous Light Industrial rezone for the entire parcel. We had a good
neighborhood meeting earlier and as I understand any land use would still have to at
least go through approval process. Any form, some form of a Special Use Permit, so, I
don’t see it as this Light Industrial rezone approved allows me to suddenly do
something else to the remaining balance. We just don’t have a need. We underwrite
this project with the assumption that we would not sell or get any dollar revenue for the
remaining balance of property to make sure the property would financially underwrite,
we did that. So, it’s no different than the forty (40) acres of land that I have in Saint
Angelo, Texas, or the company has that is behind one of our properties. I mean it’s
not, I don’t even think we have a for sale sign on it. I know we don’t in Saint Angelo,
so you know, obviously we, we like development around our sites and we hope there
would be some prudent development. I will say as being the owner of essentially both
sides we can be discretionary about who we want next to us. Since I don’t have to sell
it, or sell it for a profit, I can be selective, and make sure that’s a good fit for the area,
for us and hopefully, so I, there are no plans. The other question was exclusive
students. No, we’re not, and if I said that last year, that, I don’t believe I did, because
I’m fairly confident I had that down. It’s, it’s not. I mean, one(1), it’s illegal. Two (2)
it’s just not good business. I mean we want to rent to whomever. Because we rent by
the bed and because it’s fully furnished, there are non-students, non-younger
professionals, who don’t find that attractive. They’d rather have an entire unit and they
don’t want our furniture, so a lot of people just don’t find that as a fit. So when you
lease by the bedroom and you lease fully furnished, and all bills paid, you find that it’s
you know, eighty-five percent (85%) students. Maybe another ten percent (10%) of
young professionals, graduate students, recent graduates, and then we always have a
small mix of, whether it’s individuals who are here for work for a year and like the
flexibility of having a space that’s occu…, you know, but it’s, it’s not exclusive. Anybody
in this room can come fill out an application and live there. Third (3rd), taxes. I’m
familiar with other tax requests that have come here before by other developers. We
haven’t factored that in as a part of our pro forma, it’s not a request we are making.
Somebody asked tonight if, you know can fire handle something like this? And I
remind them, when you pay your full share of taxes, those taxes go to lots of things,
including fire trucks and school desks and various things. So, no we, we want to pay
our fair share and we hope those are used for our property and around. And then built.
Campus Crest does actually, act as a construction manager. We have construction
management professionals located in Charlotte. We don’t have anybody that builds
these. We do have groups around the country that have built properties for us, but
when it comes time to send this work out for bid, it goes, it gets broadcast. I probably
get ten (10) inquiries a day through just my email of different local groups, regional
groups that want to bid on our properties. Anybody can work on them and it takes a
lot, so I will tell you right now, we have, we and a lot of other people have a problem
finding skilled labor to work because of, luckily the economy is rising so we’re, it’s going
to take a lot of people, so no, it’s a, anybody who wants to bid on this job can make a
run at it. We welcome it.
13

TB September 17, 2014
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thank you. The next person that would like to speak from the public. Carol?
CAROL BURRITT, 620 SHORE DRIVE
Carol Burritt, 620 Shore Drive. This is the, what I’d like to say tonight concerns Campus
Crest and also has to do with the fact that this is the second (2nd) meeting in two (2)
nights about, informational meetings, which was held at six (6:00) and last night which
I missed because I never got any notification of the meeting. For rental properties
within probably about a square mile area, there with the duplexes for Cobblestone,
apparently there was a meeting last night which most of us only found out about after
the fact because of our facebook page and the meeting tonight, which was the second
(2nd) meeting because the first (1st) meeting, people didn’t hear about, and I only heard
about because I was on facebook all day talking to people. And it brings up the point
that on the agenda tonight is the idea of a public hearing to establish our rental
registry, which we’ve all kind of been waiting a long time to see. And my suggestion
would be, I appreciate the idea that this company has gone through a lot of expense
and trouble to address concerns about the physical location of roads, the physical
location of the complex itself, and has, has brought it back before us and before you for
approval. But my idea is, before we say yes to this, or even consider the duplexes, why
not wait, you know, put a moratorium on any rental units being built, multi-family units
being built say from Jefferson Road to the Thruway, between West Henrietta Road and
the river, for a, until we can at least establish a rental registry. We can sit down as a
community and talk about how we want, we want to make sure that our
neighborhoods, our roads, and our communities can maintain a sense of residency, you
know place where you want to live if you’re not a student if you’re not associated with
the University. I mean, I’ve been in nineteen (19), in Henrietta since 1958. I never
thought that moving to West, West Henrietta from East Henrietta would take me to
another world, and it has. So, I, it’s a proposal and I know other towns have done this,
you know, you put up a moratorium. Hey, let’s step back and think about this,
especially when things are just seeming to come in, and I told this gentleman tonight, I
feel like we’re being sandwiched. And I would like to see this town really look at
protecting us and putting things into place. I’d like to see the reestablishment of a real
dialogue between the University, between the Sheriff’s Department, the Code
Enforcement Officers, someone from the Board, and residents. To sit, you know, sit
down and talk about these issues, rather than this you know, scatter shot, “Oh we’re
having a problem this weekend, well we’re going to have a problem this weekend, or
this is a problem now and oh let’s all go and, you know, take a look at the
neighborhoods right now.” No, we have to have a really consolidated plan for how we
deal with something that is going to happen. I realize that it’s not going to be what it
was at one time when we were all, you know, walking around on farm land. But what’s
happening right now and as you said sir, you know that other people are looking at us.
We are the big bucks, you know, turkey that everybody seems to want to carve up.
And most of those people that want to carve us up don’t live with us, don’t live with the
consequences of what they do. So that’s just what I want to bring before you tonight.
14

TB September 17, 2014
(Applause)
ELIZABETH PLACE, 24 WELLINGTON DRIVE
My name is Elizabeth Place, I have a residence on 24 Wellington Drive, I have lived in
Henrietta since 1974. Yes, Henrietta is changing and growing and I agree very much
with what this lady said. We need to grow without a lot of growing pains. I am
concerned with another five (500), six (600), seven (700), eight hundred (800) cars on
Bailey Road. Maybe they’ve taken them off from East River Road, but still another five
or six hundred (500-600) cars in that little corner of Henrietta is going to make an
impact. Also not knowing what is going to happen in the future if this is zoned Light
Industrial what does that mean, what could happen? I’d like to see more single-family
homes, family homes, not, and I have nothing against the students, but we’re losing
our neighborhoods. I have grandchildren that are growing up in our neighborhood and
for them to find a neighborhood atmosphere we may have to move. They mentioned
that they have a policy of removing problem residents, but in my experience of being a
landlord in another town, we have seven (7) rental units. Getting ready, getting rid of
a problem tenant takes a lot of money, several visits to town or county court, a sepin…,
or a you know, the sheriff’s department has to evict them. And it doesn’t just say one
(1), two (2), three (3) you’re out. It’s a lot of work. So, I agree with what was said
before. I think there needs to be a lot of different people sit down and talk. Where do
we want our little northwest corner of Henrietta to go? Because I’d hate to leave, but if
it’s going to become like a college town and Light Industrial area, that’s not where I
want my grandchildren to grow up. Thank you.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
You’re welcome.
(Applause)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Who would like to speak next?
BONNIE DEAL, 40 WESTMINSTER PARK
Hi. My name is Bonnie Deal. I live at 40 Westminster Park, and I just want to say that
you kind of said that this’ll help with the off-campus housing. It won’t, because the
people that are renting the single-family homes want to party. They don’t want to be
under your rules. So they’re still going to do that. And if you zone this whole thing
Light Industrial, you said yourself, a Dollar General can go in. I don’t want a Dollar
General in there. I don’t want a strip mall in there. You know, you were just on TV not
too long ago about open, you know, a couple of Saturdays ago I turned on the TV and
you were on about, you know, saving farms and stuff like that. If you zone this in,
Industrial then that’s gone forever. That’s gone forever, and I can live next door to a
mall, or, and it’s not what I bought my house for. So, you know, you’re going to do
what you’re going to do, but like those ladies said before, I think it takes a lot more to
think about than just, you know, making a snap decision and letting these guys in.
15

TB September 17, 2014
Because once it’s gone, it’s gone. And then when they can’t house it, RIT doesn’t want
this. I was just talking to RIT. They don’t want it. So, so when they can’t fill that
housing, then what do they get? You know, people right out of rehab because, it’s just,
they’re just renting a bed? Yay. You know, I’m jus.., I’m, thank you.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thank you.
(Applause)
MEREDITH SMITH, RIT ASSOCIATE VP FOR GOVERNMENT & COMMUNITY RELATIONS
Good evening. Thank you members of the Town Board for holding this hearing. My
name is Meredith Smith, and I’m Associate Vice President for Government and
Community Relations at RIT and will provide some testimony on behalf of RIT. Our
position on this project has not changed since it was first proposed. We have
repeatedly asked to see or discuss the market study that Campus Crest believes justifies
building another privately owned student housing complex in Henrietta. I’ve actually
renewed that request through Campus Crest representatives here in Henrietta and I’ve
also offered to sign a non-disclosure agreement, which is a legally binding agreement
that would not allow me to share any details of that market study, frankly with, with
anyone, and I would still be very willing to do so because certainly it’s our position that,
our enrollment projects, which we think we know best, do not, we don’t anticipate a
growth rate that will require six hundred (600) new beds in Henrietta. We are not a
partner in any way on this project, we do not have any affiliation at this time. In other
words, we don’t have an agreement, nor have we had detailed discussions about
shuttle buses. We have, and I wasn’t going to raise this, but I will since Alex brought it
up, had some discussions about the perfect road, which we call, as Alex said, which we
would call Miller Road, we’ve had those discussions with their representatives here on
the ground in Henrietta. And Miller Road actually runs right through a wetland. It’s a
dirt road today and it’s a dirt road for a reason, and so paving that road would be very
difficult, and probably cost prohibitive and also prohibited from a permitting perspective
with regard to environmental regulations. We are concerned about the security and
safety practices proposed for this facility. The corporate office of Campus Crest, and,
and this is consistent with what Alex has said, stated in a document, which was
distributed to the neighborhoods off of East River Road, that, there will be two (2) fulltime managers on the premises twenty-four (24) hours a day. They typically hire
Community Assistance, who we believe would likely be RIT students and they would be
responsible for their buildings. RIT thinks this is not enough from a student’s safety
perspective and would, again if this project is passed would appreciate an open
dialogue with regard to what more Campus Crest would be willing to do to address
those issues. We know from past experience in Henrietta, that a landlord, whether it’s
a landlord who owns one (1) home, or the owner of a private housing complex,
landlords have to set and enforce standards of behavior which are consistent with RIT’s
code of conduct as well as the ordinance of the Town of Henrietta and of course state
and federal law.
Respectfully we do not believe that students residing in
16

TB September 17, 2014
neighborhoods, the neighborhoods represented by many people here this evening, that
our students will dump their leases and move the Grove at Cam…, at Rochester. They
live in single-family homes because they want yards, they want pets, they want to park
at their door. And in some cases, they do want to party, we know that, I know that
because when parties happen, many of the people sitting in this room call me. And we
do what we can to address it. We can’t do everything, landlords have a lot of power, of
and of course the Sheriff’s Office can do what they can do. The only thing that really
can limit the growth of single-family housing, or student housing, is a change in zoning.
And we did have a dialogue with the previous administration about that, and we’d be
happy to do that again. We don’t predict that Campus Crest will fill all of their beds
with RIT student and so what that means is that, it’s likely that we’ll have RIT students
there, MCC students, U of R students, and potentially non-students, which will, frankly,
complicate communication with regard to behavior and safety issues. So, in closing, we
are encouraged to hear the representatives of Campus Crest state that if this project is
passed, we can have an open dialogue between Campus Crest and RIT, the Town, and
I think this community expects this, about behavior and safety issues. We would invite
Alex and his colleagues to our off-campus housing task force meetings, where we talk
about every six (6) weeks in detail street by street about, off-campus student housing
issues happening in Henrietta. And not unlike your CEO, my cell phone is readily
accessible, and I’ll look forward to that phone call, in the event that this project is
passed. Thank you.
(Applause)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thank you, Meredith. Who would like to be next? Terry?
TERRY RECK, 287 BAILEY ROAD
Terry Reck, land owner at 287 Bailey Road, immediately adjacent to the proposed
access point.
(Unidentified from audience, “We can’t hear you. Please speak up.”)
TERRY RECK, 287 BAILEY ROAD
Immediately, land owner immediately adjacent to the proposed access point. My, my
first comment is, as somebody else had eluded to it already, notification, as the
immediately adjacent land owner to a proposed rezoning, I wasn’t aware of it until the
sign went up, chained to the street, I don.., it was, if it’s a, a speed limit sign, there on
our property.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
It was two hundred and thirty four (234) notices sent out.

17

TB September 17, 2014
TERRY RECK, 287 BAILEY ROAD
Yes, and I, I came down today and for some reason we weren’t on it. The notification
distance didn’t go from that parcel on Bailey Road; it was solely from the large parcel,
so….part of that may be shame on me.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
By law we’re supposed to go seven hundred and fifty feet (750’) and we went over a
half mile.
TERRY RECK, 287 BAILEY ROAD
Not from the proposed rezoned Bailey rezone. The address…
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Again, I don’t know why you didn’t get a letter, but all of Bailey Road, all the way
around that whole, that whole block, everybody got a notice.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
You, don’t reside in Henrietta though, right? You just own the land?
TERRY RECK, 287 BAILEY ROAD
That’s correct.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Okay. That may be a part of the complication. Where’s the tax bills sent?
TERRY RECK, 287 BAILEY ROAD
I would think to my home in Rush, so….again, part of that may be shame on me.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
There’s no way we’re not going to notify people. Okay? So, I’m sorry if you didn’t get
notified, but two hundred and thirty-four (234) notices for a project of this size, I think
the Town did a pretty good job.
TERRY RECK, 287 BAILEY ROAD
Yes. I, like I said, I, I saw a…
SUPERVISOR MOORE
I mean, you’ve been in a similar situation in Rush, where you know, people get notified,
and Rush would have never notified that many people.
TERRY RECK, 287 BAILEY ROAD
Yeah, again, it’s a concern. I’m glad that I was able to at the last minute be aware of it
and come here. I was aware of the project in that I was actually approached to grant
an easement for this access and I denied it saying I wouldn’t do that to my neighbor.
Obviously that wasn’t the same, so but….
18

TB September 17, 2014
(Laughter)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
That’s why we live in America Terry.
TERRY RECK, 287 BAILEY ROAD
Yeah, all, all that aside, a couple of the other concerns that I have is, it was proposed
here that that is a private road, not a dedicated road, if I understand it correctly. It
appears as though it is quite lengthy in the, the gate of the gated community is, is that
at the road? Is that at Bailey Road? That’s at the facility, so my concern would be that
length of road through what is now vacant land what have you, the security of that
particular stretch of road and if that road would become the access for the remaining
development in that, of that land. Another concern, again, related to access, is that
there is only a single access for a considerable amount of residents and that, again,
that length of private road, what would happen if that was in some way barricaded
inaccessible, etc., from an emergency response standpoint? Again, if we’re talking six
hundred (600) beds, that would be another one of my concerns. The last concern that
I would have, and again, a part of this is shame on me for not knowing what’s going on
here with that rezoning, I think that leaves me as an island of residential zoning. What
does that, what impact does that have on me in the future? Is it going to force the
Industrial Zoning on me? And, what actual impact does that leave me with? Again,
haven’t been aware of it, haven’t put a lot of research in, so I may appear ignorant
here, but those are my initial concerns.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Well, first off there’s no way we force zoning on anybody. Most land owners have to
apply for a rezoning change. So, and, whatever the use is now, I belived it’s a rental
home with a cell tower site, you can continue to do that, if you wish.
TERRY RECK, 287 BAILEY ROAD
Okay. Question for the developer and again, don’t want to take up a lot of time here,
but sewer, what, sewer access, both storm and sanitary, is, where’s that coming from?
JESS SUDOL, PASSERO ASSOCIATES
Just very quickly, the storm law, the, on-site (inaudible) to the existing wetland, the
sewer comes in up off Lucius Gordon and water will follow the access road from Bailey.
TERRY RECK, 287 BAILEY ROAD
Okay.
JOHN CARUSO, PASSERO ASSOCIATES
The access road also has lights on (inaudible)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Are the, the facilities sprinklered too?
19

TB September 17, 2014
JOHN CARUSO, PASSERO ASSOCIATES
Yes.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Okay.
TERRY RECK, 287 BAILEY ROAD
And I don’t know, the, I did glance at the traffic study, certainly I know in, in my trying
to pull out of that driveway around five o’clock (5:00), it is a little bit difficult, due to all
of the other facilities in the area coming out. I’m sure that was taken into account for
the traffic study, and noted but, it is, it has been, at least for me personally, a bit of an
issue to get out of my driveway there.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thank you.
TERRY RECK, 287 BAILEY ROAD
Thank you.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
The next person that would like to speak, please.
COMMANDER JACK GRECO, 104 LIPPMAN ROAD
Commander Greco, I took a lot of notes, so bear with me. Can you share your
environmental feasibility study as it responds to endangered species, wildlife, and
plants. In addition to that, that’s question number one (1), I understand that you
purchased seventy-three (73) acres of land, can you give me the ratio between the land
that you’re going to utilize for building and the land that you’re going to keep vacant for
the land that is being preciously swallowed up. And I understand you, we can’t just
have land in an abundance, but last time I was here, I remembered a couple of things
and it’s all lined in. A silent prayer is what we really want to think about, and the
Pledge of Allegiance is talking about the “Land of the free and the home of the brave…”
and a lot of brave comments have been here. Silent prayer is that a hundred (100)
years from now we’re not going to be here, so it’s not money is the root of all evil, it’s
the love of money. So I understand that the organization is extremely well endowed
and they’ve done an awful lot of great outputs. A quick question is if you can provide a
feasibility study relative to the lessons learned as to what were the, the risks and what’s
your risk mitigation plan? Thank you.
(Applause)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Is there anybody else that would like to speak on the application? Seeing none, I would
like to go ahead and….
20

TB September 17, 2014
COMMANDER JACK GRECO, 104 LIPPMAN ROAD
I’m waiting for (inaudible)…
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
He wants some answers on the environmental.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
They, I asked them and they deferred.
JOHN CARUSO, PASSERO ASSOCIATES
I can answer… I can answer the questions that were related to ratios, some of the
other things that you wanted to talk about environmental, it’s a farm field and so the…
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
Have you done like a phase one (1)?
JOHN CARUSO, PASSERO ASSOCIATES
Well, I think that environmental he was talking about was more the SEQRA like issues
rather than environmental phase one (1), which is nasty things. This is seventy-three
(73) acres of a farm property that we were using twenty (20) out of the seventy-three
(73), so there’s your development ratio, whatever that works out to be; about a little
less than a quarter. But with respect to a, I think it was plants and wildlife, it currently
is a farm field and, and it was used to, for farming, and so that means that there was
no invasive species or protect… or endangered species because it’s soil is turned over
and disturbed. So therefore, there’s no bog turtles or things that you would look for in,
as far as wildlife, endangered wildlife. I don’t think that there is any plant materials
there that are obviously there’s a wetland there. We are not going near the wetland, as
you can see, so, did I get them all?
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Yes, thank you.
JOHN CARUSO, PASSERO ASSOCIATES
As far as the feasibility study of lessons learned, it doesn’t, that’s not something I’ve
ever heard exis…, that’s conducted or that exists. Thank you.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thank you. Is there anybody else that wanted to speak on this application? (Pause, no
response) I would like to go ahead and close the Public Hearing and we will not be
voting on this tonight. We’ve heard a lot of information and we will be voting on the
application at the next Town Board Meeting. Thank you very much. The second Public
Hearing we have tonight is for our Proposed Local Law No. 2 of 2014, it’s a Local Law
establishing a tax payer assistance program. Councilor, I don’t know how we proceed
for this one. Do we read the Local Law into the record, or… ?
21

TB September 17, 2014
DANIEL MASTRELLA, TOWN ATTORNEY
I think just say a summary of what it, you can just give a summary of what it is, and
ask if anybody wants to be heard on it.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Well, basically this is the last step we that have in order to be able to send the tax
payers back some money that you were overcharged by the former administration. And
once we pass this law, the checks can be run on Monday and they’ll be in the mail on
Tuesday. And if, do we have any Board discussion? Maybe you guys could explain it
better.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
That’s it.
COUNCILWOMAN ZINCK
Just, it’s, what you got to do.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Okay. Is there anybody in the audience that would like to speak on this?
CAROL BURRITT, 620 SHORE DRIVE
“Yay”
(Laughter)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
It’s not much but it’s…
COUNCILMAN PAGE
For the record, 620 Shore Drive is a “Yay!”
(Laughter)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Well, it’s actually one hundred dollars ($100.00) given back to you of which the average
home spent one hundred and seventy-five dollars ($175.00) last year on Town taxes,
so it’s better than a stick in the eye, as my grandfather would say. Could I have a
motion on this?
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
I think you just close the Public Hearing.

22

TB September 17, 2014
SUPERVISOR MOORE
I have to close the Public Hearing. So you don’t want to talk on it? Please. So we
have to have a motion to pass….
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
I’ll close the Public Hearing.
COUNCILWOMAN ZINCK
Do we have to have a motion?
DANIEL MASTRELLA, TOWN ATTORNEY
Yes.
COUNCILWOMAN ZINCK
Can I just say, so moved?
DANIEL MASTRELLA, TOWN ATTORNEY
No, I think it’s, it’s a Local Law, everybody needs to vote.
COUNCILWOMAN ZINCK
Oh boy.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
No, you don’t have to read the law, just make a motion that we’re going to pass Local
Law No. 2.
COUNCILWOMAN ZINCK
We’re going to pass Local Law No. 2.
DANIEL MASTRELLA, TOWN ATTORNEY
Oh, I’m sorry. Wait a second, there’s a Resolution further on in the meeting.
COUNCILWOMAN ZINCK
Okay.
DANIEL MASTRELLA, TOWN ATTORNEY
Sorry.
COUNCILWOMAN ZINCK
Why don’t we wait for that?
DANIEL MASTRELLA, TOWN ATTORNEY
Just close the Public Hearing.

23

TB September 17, 2014
COUNCILWOMAN ZINCK
Alright
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Let’s close the public hearing and go on to our general meeting.
COUNCILWOMAN ZINCK
And then we’ll read it later.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Okay, good. Thank you.
COUNCILWOMAN ZINCK
I like that.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Could I please have the first Resolution? And you have to understand that tonight is
the first night that this Town Board has gone paperless, so we are working off our
tablets, so bear with us that aren’t quite as computer literate as some others.
COUNCILWOMAN ZINCK
Which would be most.
RESOLUTION #17-206/2014
On Motion of
Councilman Page

Seconded by
Councilwoman Zinck

BE IT RESOLVED, that the Director of Finance be authorized to pay the following
bills payable:
Exhibit A

Bills Payable dated 09/17/2014

$ 438,631.48

Exhibit B

Manual Bills Payable dated 09/16/2014

$

SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion? Please call the roll.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried
24

1,000.00

TB September 17, 2014
RESOLUTION #17-207/2014
On Motion of
Councilman Mulligan

Seconded by
Councilman Page

IN THE MATTER OF
THE ADOPTION OF PROPOSED LOCAL LAW NO. 3 OF 2014:
A LOCAL LAW ESTABLISHING A RENTAL REGISTRY
WHEREAS, true and correct copies of proposed Local Law No. 3 of 2014, A Local
Law Establishing a Rental Registry, were delivered to each member of the Town Board,
and
WHEREAS, due consideration has been given to the adoption of proposed Local
Law No. 3 of 2014 by all members of the Town Board, and
WHEREAS, it was the considered opinion of the Town Board that a Public
Hearing should be held on the 1st day of October, 2014, at the Henrietta Town Hall, 475
Calkins Road, Henrietta, New York, to consider the adoption of the proposed Local Law
No. 3 of 2014.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Public Hearing be held on the 1st day of
October 2014 at 7:00 p.m., at the Henrietta Town Hall, 475 Calkins Road, Henrietta,
New York, on the question of the adoption of proposed Local Law No. 3 of 2014, a
Local Law Establishing a Rental Registry, and a summary thereof be published in a
newspaper previously designated as an official newspaper for publication of public
notices.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Clerk shall post Certified Copies of
both this Resolution and said proposed Local Law No. 3 of 2014, or a summary thereof,
on the bulletin board maintained by the Town Clerk, pursuant to Section 30(6) of the
Town Law.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion?
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
Just under discussion, I hope this does some good. It’s been a long time coming and I
want to thank the administration for putting it together.
COUNCILMAN PAGE
Through you, Mr. Supervisor, I also want to make sure that the Proposed Local Law is
placed on our website and copies available so the people in the audience, or people at
home, can read it and help us with comments during the Public Hearing, of things that
they think might add to it or delete from it as well. It’s very important to us that we get
the feedback from the people. That is just a proposed code, a proposed law, we need
your feedback after you review it. Thank you.
25

TB September 17, 2014
COUNCILWOMAN ZINCK
Good idea.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
Years from now Carol, they’ll call this the Carol Burritt Law.
(Laughter)
COUNCILWOMAN ZINCK
Or something like that.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Please call the roll.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

RESOLUTION #17-1/2014
On Motion of
Councilwoman Zinck

Seconded by
Councilman Breese

WHEREAS, Barbara A. Finucane, Richard Petersen, and Ronald Petersen, whose
address is 4161 West Henrietta Road, being identified as Tax Identification No. 175.071-3, wish to connect to an existing sanitary sewer main, and
WHEREAS, the Town of Henrietta has offered to enter into an Out-of-District
Sewer Use Contract with Barbara A. Finucane, Richard Petersen, and Ronald Petersen,
and
WHEREAS, the Town Attorney has examined this Agreement and has found it to
be in good order.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Supervisor be hereby authorized to
execute and deliver said Agreement by and between the Town of Henrietta and Barbara
A. Finucane, Richard Petersen, and Ronald Petersen.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion? Please call the roll.

26

TB September 17, 2014
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

RESOLUTION #17-209/2014
On Motion of
Councilman Breese

Seconded by
Councilwoman Zinck

WHEREAS, The Rush Henrietta Central School District has requested that the
Town of Henrietta restrict parking on the Cul-De-Sac portion of Blueberry Crescent,
located at the end of Blueberry Crescent in the Town of Henrietta, New York to the
hours of 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. to facilitate the traffic flow of school buses on school
days and that said restriction be posted on Blueberry Crescent, and
WHEREAS, the Town Board wishes to address this request to change the parking
ordinance and wishes to allow the public any input it may have regarding such changes.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, I hereby introduce an ordinance amending
Henrietta Town Code Section 273-6D to allow “no parking from 7:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
school days: (I) Blueberry Crescent Cul-de-Sac at the end of Blueberry Crescent”.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that a Public Hearing will be on October 15, 2014 at
7:00 p.m. at the Town Hall, Main Meeting Room, 475 Calkins Road, Henrietta New
York, on the question of the adoption of the proposed ordinance as hereto described
where the Town Board will hear all persons interested in the subject.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that notice of said Public Hearing shall be published
in the manner provided by Law.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion?
COUNCILWOMAN ZINCK
Just want to say I hope it solves the problem.
COUNCILMAN BREESE
It’d be nice.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Please call the roll.

27

TB September 17, 2014
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

RESOLUTION #17-210/2014
On Motion of
Councilman Page

Seconded by
Councilman Mulligan

WHEREAS, the Henrietta Public Library and the Commissioner of Public Works
have requested that the attachments be declared surplus materials.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the attached items on the Henrietta Public
Library be declared surplus materials and be sent to the Parks and Facilities Department
for disposal.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the attached items from the Commissioner of
Public Works be consigned to the Teitsworth Municipal Auction to be held on October 4,
2014.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that all said items be removed from the Town’s
inventory list.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion? Please call the roll.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

RESOLUTION #17-211/2014
On Motion of
Councilwoman Zinck

Seconded by
Councilman Breese

WHEREAS, Merri Lynn Greiener wishes to donate $50.00 toward the purchase of
supplies for the Henrietta Dog Park, and
WHEREAS, a check in the amount of $50.00 was received by the Town of
Henrietta Finance Department.
28

TB September 17, 2014
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Town Board hereby acknowledges this
donation.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion? Please call the roll.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

RESOLUTION #17-12/2014
On Motion of
Councilman Page

Seconded by
Councilwoman Zinck

WHEREAS, Thomas Singe wishes to donate $150.00 toward Recreation Youth
Programs, and
WHEREAS, a check in the amount of $150.00 was received by the Town of
Henrietta Finance Department.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Town Board hereby acknowledges this
donation.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion? Please call the roll.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

RESOLUTION #17-213/2014
On Motion of
Councilwoman Zinck

Seconded by
Councilman Breese

BE IT RESOLVED, that the Director of Finance be authorized to make the Budget
transfers, as per the attachment.
29

TB September 17, 2014
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion? Please call the roll.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

RESOLUTION #17-214/2014
On Motion of
Councilman Mulligan

Seconded by
Councilman Breese

WHEREAS, upon proper notice a Public Hearing was held on the 17th day of
September, 2014 where all persons wishing to speak regarding the establishment of a
taxpayer assistance program were heard by the Town Board, and
WHEREAS, after consideration of all information presented and available it is the
determination of the Town Board that Proposed Local Law No. 2 of 2014, a local law
establishing a taxpayer assistance program, be enacted.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Henrietta Town Board hereby adopts
Local Law No. 2 of 2014, a local law establishing a taxpayer assistance program.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Clerk shall file with the Secretary of
State, as soon as possible, and in any event no later than twenty (20) days from this
date, one (1) Certified copy of said Local Law No. 2 of 2014, and that said Law shall
take effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion? Please call the roll please.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

RESOLUTION #17-215/2014
On Motion of
Councilman Mulligan

Seconded by
Councilman Page
30

TB September 17, 2014
WHEREAS, the Town Board approved Local Law No. 2 of 2014, A Local Law
Establishing a Taxpayer Assistance Program, on September 17, 2014.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the Town Board hereby authorizes the issuance
of the “Taxpayer Assistance” checks at a cost not to exceed one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) and further authorizes the appropriation of one million dollars from the
unassigned General Fund Balance to A.1989.4.407 the “Taxpayer Assistance Program”
account.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion? Please call the roll please.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

RESOLUTION #17-216/2014
On Motion of
Councilman Breese

Seconded by
Councilman Mulligan

WHEREAS, the Tentative Budget of the Town of Henrietta for the fiscal year
2015 was filed in the Office of the Town Clerk on September 17, 2014 and was
presented to Town Board Members on this same date, and
WHEREAS, Town Law requires that a Public Hearing be held on the Preliminary
Budget.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a Public Hearing be held on October 1, 2014
at 7:00 P.M. at the Henrietta Town Hall, 475 Calkins Road, Main Meeting Room,
Henrietta, New York on the fiscal year 2015 Preliminary Budget.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the notice of said Public Hearing be published
and posted in the manner provided by Law.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion? Under discussion I’d like to thank our Finance Director and her staff in
preparing this first budget of my administration and I’m very proud of the fact that I will
be able to lower the tax rate by a little over six percent (6%). Please call the roll.

31

TB September 17, 2014

Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

RESOLUTION #17-217/2014
On Motion of
Councilwoman Zinck

Seconded by
Councilman Page

WHEREAS, Gary W. Holley has resigned from the Conservation Board, which
results in a vacancy on the Conservation Board, and
WHEREAS, Christian Chamberlain is a qualified resident who has expressed an
interest in serving on the Conservation Board, and
WHEREAS, the Henrietta Town Board wishes to maintain the Boards at their
authorized strength for maximum input.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Christian Chamberlain, 24 Wellington Drive,
Rochester, New York 14623, be appointed to the Conservation Board for the remainder
of a two (2) year term effective immediately and expiring December 31, 2015.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Please call the roll.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

RESOLUTION #17-2/2014
On Motion of
Councilman Breese
2014:

Seconded by
Councilwoman Zinck

BE IT RESOLVED, that the following persons be hired, effective September 15,
Morgan Chase

Recreation Department, Seasonal Recreation
32

TB September 17, 2014
Attendant (Gymnastics Instructor) @ $8.50/hr.
Rahul Sampat

Recreation Department, Seasonal Recreation
Attendant (Gymnastics Instructor) @ $8.50/hr.

Brian Witt

Recreation Department, Seasonal Recreation
Attendant (Golden Comets Coach) @
$10.00/hr.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following persons be hired as Seasonal
Laborers for the Dog Census @ $10.00/hr., effective September 22, 2014:












Linus Rautenstrach
Arthur Lebowski
Mary Jo Smith
Robert Saunders
Bruce Eseltine
Daryl Dana
Amber Champion
Susan Love
Carol Muhs
Kelly Alvarez
Alex Covill

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following employee changes be made,
effective September 22, 2014:
Kathleen O’Connor

Seasonal Laborer (Dog Census) @ $10.00/hr.

Susan Morgan

Seasonal Laborer (Dog Census) @ $10.00/hr.

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the following employee change be made,
effective August 31, 2014:
Amber Brewster

Recreation Department, Seasonal Recreation
Attendant (Afterschool Program Director) @
$12.00/hr.

SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion? Please call the roll.

33

TB September 17, 2014
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

SUPERVISOR MOORE
That concludes the business part of the Meeting. I did have some people that signed
up to speak at the end of the Meeting and a lot of them have already spoken on the
Campus Crest, so if there is anybody else that did not come up that would like to
speak? Mike, you’re really going over the top, huh?
COUNCILWOMAN ZINCK
He forgot something.
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
Mike Stafford, 32 Essex. Had a question about the, I don’t know, the ordinance or law
that you put into effect for Town property with no smoking. And I think Councilwoman
Zinck referred to it when you voted on it about unenforceable. You make the law, you
go through the, I’m not even sure if it’s, if it’s already in effect or not, but it’s, why, you
know, why do you make laws that you can’t enforce? I mean is, who’s supposed to
enforce that law?
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Well we more or less went along with what the County did and what they’d done at
MCC this fall, in making it a smoke-free campus. We thought that it would be a very
healthy thing for our employees and for the people that come to Town Hall, and I…
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
But did you make it just for the employees, because I mean, if you’re, you know, and
I…
SUPERVISOR MOORE
It’s for everybody that comes on Town Campus.
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
Right. But…
SUPERVISOR MOORE
It’s kind of like speeding law, ok Mike? I’m sure I’ve you seen you speed before.
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
I’m sure you didn’t.
34

TB September 17, 2014
(Laughter)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
I know I have. So, I mean, how do you enforce that one?
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
Well speeding you have police out there enforcing the speed limit. Is the police, I
mean, are we dragging the cops off the street to enforce the no smoking law in the
park, or are we using our Town, Town inspector to check it up?
SUPERVISOR MOORE
We can use code enforcement, but I thought it was just a good thing to do for the
betterment of public health, and you obviously don’t agree.
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
Well, I just, I didn’t say that. I didn’t say that, I, just, why do we make rules that we
can’t enforce?
COUNCILMAN BREESE
We have a society that have an awful lot of laws that we put out there, or are put out
there that are difficult to enforce. It doesn’t mean you don’t put them out there
anyways. I mean there’s also, as soon as you drive into Town, you notice a nice, “No
Littering” sign. Right? Right under “Welcome to Town of Henrietta”, you see, “No
Littering” and, and when is the last person you know that got a ticket for littering?
COUNCILMAN PAGE
Let me take a stab at this as well. It’s a law that was passed with good intentions.
We’re not going to hire the no-smoking police, we’re not going to do that.
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
That’s, that’s what my point was.
COUNCILMAN PAGE
We’re not going to do twenty-four (24) hour surveillance. However, if you go to a park
and there’s children there, and some guy’s smoking or some person smoking, now we
can have the authority to go up to that person and say, “Sir, there’s no smoking in this
park for the safety of our children.” And the guy says, “Well show me in writing.”
Because that’s exactly what our code people get every single day. And so it was in that
spirit that we passed the law and it is appropriate.
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
Just asking who the authority is that’s going up to them? That’s…
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Are you looking for a part-time job?
35

TB September 17, 2014
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
You wouldn’t hire me Jack. You wouldn’t hire me.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Yeah I would. To count dogs.
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
Yeah. Next question, when are they going to, the restrooms over in the park there?
Somebody told me…
COUNCILWOMAN ZINCK
I didn’t set him up to say this, I just want you to know.
(Laughter)
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
Anyways somebody tells me they’re using the water fountain for a sink in the men’s
room in the one and isn’t that a, I mean isn’t that a health hazard?
COUNCILWOMAN ZINCK
Actually Chris, you talked to me about this. About the plans for the…
SUPERVISOR MOORE
But the bottom line for the, I can take care of this, Chris.
COUNCILWOMAN ZINCK
Okay.
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
When is the, I mean when are they going to, because…
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Well, hang on.
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
My kid’s over there playing football and, and that was, when they knew I was coming
over, somebody said, “Ask him about the men’s room.”
SUPERVISOR MOORE
That was on the docket to get done this year. We’ve been waiting for the grant to
come from our Assemblyman, Mr. Bronson, and it hasn’t come in yet. It’s about an
eighty-thousand dollar ($80,000.00) project. And if we don’t acquire some property
from the fair-grounds to build our recreation facility, we are looking at alternative sites
in Memorial Park, and it may be that that restroom where it is now, if it were rebuilt in
36

TB September 17, 2014
close proximately would be in the way for where we may want to put our recreation
facility. So until the dome people finally decide what they’re really going to do, that
bathroom’s on hold.
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
Okay.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
And for Bronson to send us the money, so if you know Bronson, please call him for me.
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
Okay, I’ll talk to him. But anyways, I was just asked to ask, so I asked.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
It’s a good question.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Well, I mean I can’t see going ahead and refurbishing the restroom…
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
If you’re going to tear it down anyways.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
…and then we find out that it’s in the way for our recreation facility, I would look like a
donkey, okay?
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
I don’t disagree with you.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
So, I’m not going to do that.
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
I don’t disagree with you. But it was just, like I said, I was asked to ask the question,
so, thank you.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
You’re welcome. And also, come on back to the mic. Because you called about this
today. There are some, evergreens that need to be replaced at Luxe Spa. There’s four
(4) of them, because you had to have four (4), I bought you four (4). They’re paid for,
and so, also the two (2) bushes that will be planted in your yard. They’re paid for,
they’re waiting to be delivered, but until the people that own Luxe Spa come back from
their retreat so they can tell us where the electric line is there so we don’t break it,
we’re on hold.
37

TB September 17, 2014
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
Right. Well he called me to….
SUPERVISOR MOORE
I anticipate that to be in the next ten (10) days.
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
He called me when I was walking in the parking lot. He said, he asked me if I was
going to be around tonight, so…
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Okay.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
What’s his name?
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
What’s that? Jim. Jim called me tonight.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
Good.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
We’re just, we’re trying to get the loose ends together. I expected it to be done this
weekend and it’s not going to make it.
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
Okay. Thank you.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
You’re welcome. Is there anybody else? (Pause, no response). Could I have a motion
to end the night?
The Regular Meeting of the Henrietta Town Board was moved for adjournment by
Councilman Mulligan, seconded by Councilwoman Zinck at 8:21 P.M., and was
adjourned without objection.
Respectfully submitted,

Jennifer L. Miranda
Deputy Town Clerk

38

