TOWN BOARD WORKSHOP
AGENDA
MARCH 16, 2015
4:30 P.M.



No Special Permits
No Public Hearings

1.)

Approval of Minutes of the Preceding Town Board Workshop Meeting
March 2, 2015

2.)

Approval of Minutes at Town Board meeting(s)

3.)

Consider Approving Letter of Credit – Cedar Run Development Corporation –
Barberry Cove Subdivision – Martin

4.)

Discuss Awarding Low Bid – Storm Waterway Mowing (Creek Cutting) – Martin

5.)

Consider Authorizing Purchase of Equipment – Parks Department – 2015 Ford F-250
– Marshall

6.)

Consider Awarding Low Bid – Cul-de-Sac & Pump Station Mowing - Marshall

7.)

Consider Authorizing Fee Schedules – Baldwin Cabin & Henrietta Pavilions - Kulik

8.)

Consider Authorizing Summer Recreation Program Fee Schedules – Kulik

9.)

Info Only: Discuss Online Registration for Recreation Programs & Cabin/Pavilion
Rentals – Kulik

10.) Authorize Standard Work Days for Appointed Official – Wiesner
11.) Info Only: Discuss Supervisor’s Monthly Report – February - Chirdo
12.) Consider Acknowledging Findings of State Environmental Quality Review Act
(SEQRA) – Richland Residential, Inc. – The Summit – Minotti / Young
13.) Consider Approving Special Use Permit – Richland Residential – The Summit –
Minotti / Young
14.) Info Only: Discuss Lake Pamela – Minotti
15.) Consider Acknowledging Years of Service – Robert Steidle - Moore
16.) Info Only: Discuss Riverton Golf Course Lease – Moore

17.) Info Only: Discuss Solar Panel Field on Town Property - Moore
18.) Review Personnel Items – Moore
19.) Consider Bills Payable – Moore
20.) Old Business

TOWN OF HENRIETTA
TOWN BOARD WORKSHOP MEETING NOTES
MARCH 16, 2015
The regularly scheduled Workshop of the Henrietta Town Board for Monday, March 16,
2015 was called to order at 4:30 P.M.
MEMBERS PRESENT
Supervisor Jack W. Moore
Deputy Supervisor Peter C. Minotti
Councilman William J. Mulligan, Jr.
Councilwoman Janet B. Zinck
Councilman M. Rick Page
Councilman Kenneth Breese
Donald A. Young, Town Attorney
Rebecca Wiesner, Town Clerk and Receiver of Taxes



GUESTS/RESIDENTS PRESENT
Phil Mancini
Mike Stafford
Sally Howard
Susan McVay
Barry McVay

No Special Permits
No Public Hearings

1.) Approval of Minutes of the Preceding Town Board Workshop Meeting
March 2, 2015
Councilwoman Zinck made a motion to approve the Town Board Workshop Minutes from
the March 2, 2015 Meeting and Councilman Page seconded the motion.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

2.) Approval of Minutes at Town Board meeting(s)
3.) Consider Approving Letter of Credit – Cedar Run Development
Corporation – Barberry Cove Subdivision – Martin
Peter Minotti, Deputy Supervisor, applauded the work of Roland Osterwinter, Junior
Engineer, on preparing this letter of credit. Supervisor Moore stated that in the past, the
Town of Henrietta hadn’t received proper letters of credit and Minotti confirmed that this
was compliant as to form and content under the Uniform Commercial Code.

TB Workshop March 16, 2015
4.) Discuss Awarding Low Bid – Storm Waterway Mowing (Creek Cutting)
– Martin
Supervisor Moore expressed concern about how low the lowest received bid from Ted
Hosmer Enterprise was. Barbara Chirdo, Director of Finance, explained that their price
per mowing amount was four hundred eighty-one dollars ($481.00) and that the next
lowest bid amount per mowing was four thousand one hundred dollars ($4,100.00) from
Extreme Lawncare & Landscaping, which is obviously quite a large difference.
Representatives from Ted Hosmer Enterprise told the Town they have a special machine
that can do the cutting, but Moore is concerned whether the machine can do the work
without creating ruts and has requested that they submit additional information.
Councilman Page requested that Ted Hosmer Enterprise be invited to the next Town Board
Workshop Meeting for a discussion with the Town Board. Chirdo said that the first cut
isn’t scheduled until July and so they have time to discuss how they would like to proceed.
5.) Consider Authorizing Purchase of Equipment – Parks Department –
2015 Ford F-150 – Marshall
Supervisor Moore explained that this Ford F-150 is to replace Tim Ochs’ truck.
Councilman Breese asked whether this replacement was on the equipment replacement
schedule and was told that it was. Breese also asked whether this type of truck would
conform to the Town plow truck color established at the February 17, 2015 Town Board
Workshop Meeting. Moore said that each department would continue to have a
designated color (blue, green, white) as it was easier to determine whether Town staff
was where they were supposed to be based on the color of the truck they were driving.
6.) Consider Awarding Low Bid – Cul-de-Sac & Pump Station Mowing Marshall
The lowest bid was received from Extreme Lawncare & Landscape in the amount of six
hundred thirty-five dollars ($635.00) per mowing. Barbara Chirdo, Director of Finance,
said that this is the same company that won the bid three (3) years ago. The next lowest
bid was received from Mowtivated Lawn Care, Inc. in the amount of nine hundred sixty
dollars ($960.00) per mowing.
7.) Consider Authorizing Fee Schedules – Baldwin Cabin & Henrietta
Pavilions - Kulik
Currently, the pavilions are free for residents to use, but the proposed resolution includes
a twenty-five dollar ($25.00) fee for residents and a fifty dollar ($50.00) fee for
non-residents. Jason Kulik, Director of Parks and Recreation, said that the fees would
help with maintenance costs on the pavilions and mentioned that Buyck Pavilion is in need
of roof repair. Councilwoman Zinck thought that in comparison to the forty-five dollar
($45.00) fee that the Town of Brighton charges, the fees were reasonable. Kulik added
that signage would be added to the pavilions to mark whether they had been reserved
each day and if a cabin wasn’t already reserved it would be free for residents to use.
2

TB Workshop March 16, 2015
Kulik also reported that the Baldwin Cabin in Lookup Park should be ready in April.
Councilman Page asked whether AV equipment was installed in Baldwin Cabin and
Supervisor Moore said not yet. Thus far, the Town has spent twelve thousand dollars
($12,000.00) on the renovation of Baldwin Cabin, which has included new countertops,
flooring, and lighting. Supervisor Moore mentioned that Baldwin Cabin needs additional
parking yet. The fees for use of the Baldwin Cabin in the proposed resolution are one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for residents and two hundred twenty-five dollars
($225.00) for non-residents. Councilman Page asked what the reason was for the
difference in fees between the pavilions and Baldwin Cabin. Kulik cited that the
difference in fees was due to the updated amenities of Baldwin Cabin since it is being
renovated. Councilwoman Zinck added that the fees would help with upkeep costs.
Councilman Page asked about the one hundred dollar ($100.00) deposit fee and Kulik said
that if there isn’t any damage to the property, that deposit gets returned. Supervisor
Moore mentioned that last week, Town staff encountered a melted plastic bag full of
garbage on top of a grill outside one of the pavilions.
Councilman Mulligan said that he wouldn’t charge for pavilions and that by charging for
something that used to be free, there would be problems. Councilwoman Zinck felt that
it would be worthwhile to have a reservation fee so that people using the pavilions can get
the exact date they want.
8.) Consider Authorizing Summer Recreation Program Fee Schedules –
Kulik
Jason Kulik, Director of Parks and Recreation, reported that the Recreation Department is
finalizing the Town’s summer programs. Supervisor Moore was pleased to report that
Kulik had spent time going through all recreation programs and the cost basis for each.
After looking at a number of factors, including last year’s program participation, the
minimum wage increase, and the increase in bus driver and fuel rates, Kulik recommended
an eight to twelve percent (8% – 12%) increase in program fees. Councilwoman Zinck
expressed concern about the fees for playground programs because so many residents
rely on those programs. Zinck also asked about people who didn’t have money and
Moore said that if residents need help, they work on finding a corporate sponsor.
Councilman Page felt that the non-resident fees were too low and there was a discussion
about the percent increase on non-resident fees and whether the proposed fees were
appropriate. The Town Board asked Kulik to ensure that there was at least a fifteen
percent (15%) increase on non-resident fees for the playground programs.
9.) Info Only: Discuss Online Registration for Recreation Programs &
Cabin/Pavilion Rentals – Kulik
The Town will be accepting online registration for recreation programs and cabin/pavilion
rentals on August 17, 2015 for fall program registrations.

3

TB Workshop March 16, 2015
10.) Authorize Standard Work Days for Appointed Official – Wiesner
Rebecca Wiesner, Town Clerk and Receiver of Taxes, said that the proposed resolution is
for the New York State and Local Employees’ Retirement System. All active members of
the retirement system must establish how many hours are in a standard work day. The
proposed resolution was for Zoning Board Member David MacInytre, establishing a
standard work day as six (6) hours. Supervisor Moore asked whether six (6) hours for
one Zoning Board Meeting a month was correct. Councilman Breese, having previously
been on the Zoning Board, responded that six (6) hours is correct if Zoning Board
Members do background work prior to each meeting.
11.) Info Only: Discuss Supervisor’s Monthly Report – February - Chirdo
Barbara Chirdo, Director of Finance, sent the monthly report to the Town Board Members
via email prior to the Workshop for their review.
12.) Consider Acknowledging Findings of State Environmental Quality
Review Act (SEQRA) – Richland Residential, Inc. – The Summit –
Minotti / Young
The Town Board declared their intent to be Lead Agency for the Environmental Quality
Review under the New York State Environmental Quality Review Act (SEQR) on December
17, 2014 via Town Board Resolution #23-280/2014. Peter Minotti, Deputy Supervisor,
said that the full environmental assessment forms have been reviewed. Donald Young,
Town Attorney, said that the Town Board is in a position to decide whether A) there is no
significant environmental impact and make a negative declaration; or B) that there are
concerns about the environmental impact of the project and make a positive declaration.
Young said that the Town Board would need to make their SEQR findings prior to voting on
the Special Use Permit. Councilman Mulligan asked why the Town was spending money
on attorney fees for this project if the Town Board was voting no. Supervisor Moore said
that since the application hasn’t been withdrawn, the Town is required to go through the
proper procedures regardless of how the Town Board votes on the Special Permit
application. Young proceeded to provide the Town Board with additional information
regarding the Special Permit process. Richland Residential, Inc.’s proposed project is
located in an industrial zoned district. In an industrial zoned district, multi-family housing
requires a Special Permit, but even if a Special Permit were obtained, the project would
need to go through SEQR, Planning Board, and Zoning Board as required. The way the
Town Code is written, the presumption is that multi-family housing is harmonious within
an industrial zoned district and would fit in within the district. Councilman Page made a
motion to move the discussion regarding The Summit into executive session and
Councilwoman Zinck seconded the motion. Young asked that they instead enter an
attorney/client privilege meeting with him after the Workshop Meeting to discuss the
project.

4

TB Workshop March 16, 2015
13.) Consider Approving Special Use Permit – Richland Residential – The
Summit – Minotti / Young
14.) Info Only: Discuss Lake Pamela – Minotti
There was a meeting on March 11th with Supervisor Moore, Deputy Supervisor Minotti, and
members from the Riverton Community Association: Jim Grossman, Attorney; Mike
Welsch; Barbara Benjamin; Betsy McDonald; and Frank Myers, III. Minotti said that the
Riverton Community Association has agreed to cover some of the expense from repairing
Lake Pamela. In 2010, the Riverton Community Association earmarked forty thousand
dollars ($40,000.00) for repairs to Lake Pamela. The Town is still negotiating with the
Riverton Community Association on an appropriate dollar amount to be reimbursed for the
repair work.
The Town has spent the following on Lake Pamela:
$35,000.00 on stone
$12,000.00 on attorney fees
$12,000.00 on engineering fees
$ 5,000.00 to rent an excavator
$64,000.00 total plus labor costs for 3 men for 7 days
Moore reported that the Riverton Community Association wants time to pay the Town, but
a specific timetable hasn’t yet been given to the Town. The Town is working towards
eventually taking ownership of Lake Pamela.
15.) Consider Acknowledging Years of Service – Robert Steidle - Moore
16.) Info Only: Discuss Riverton Golf Course Lease – Moore
The Town terminated the Joseph C. DeMino’s Operating Contract for the Riverton Golf
Course on November 19, 2014 via Resolution #21-264/2014 due to a lack of proper
insurance coverage. Mr. DeMino is interested in having the Operating Contract
reinstated. Peter Minotti, Deputy Supervisor, said that Mr. DeMino is in compliance as to
form and content for all insurance coverage on the property. Supervisor Moore added
that there are still currently thirty (30) dead trees on the property that need to be removed
for safety reasons. Councilman Page asked that a Resolution be added to Wednesday’s
Town Board Meeting to reinstate Mr. DeMino’s Operating Contract. Page also said that
he would call Mr. DeMino to tell him they would be reinstating the contract, but that he
needs to remove the trees or the Town will do the work and charge him for the cost.
17.) Info Only: Discuss Solar Panel Field on Town Property - Moore
At the Association of Towns of the State of New York Annual Meeting in New York City,
Jack Moore spoke to Solar Liberty about the Town of Henrietta utilizing solar power.
Solar Liberty told Moore that the installation of five to ten (5 – 10) acres of solar panels
would offset the Town’s electric bills for a twenty (20) year period. Councilwoman Zinck
5

TB Workshop March 16, 2015
asked what the loc
w
cation would be for the solar pan el field and Moore res
d
e
d
sponded tha he
at
wasn’t sure yet how residents would resp
s
w
pond to the field and t
e
thus didn’t y know w
yet
where
it should be located Councilman Mulligan asked w
d
d.
whether any capital inv
y
vestment w
would
be required and Mo
oore respon
nded that So Liberty assured th it would not involve any
olar
y
hat
e
cost for twenty (20 years. Moore adde that this is something he is sti exploring and
0)
M
ed
ill
g
would re
eport back to the Town Board wit additiona information.
t
th
al
18.) Review Personnel Items – Moore
)
P
M
19.) Consider Bills Paya
)
r
able – Mo
oore
20.) Old Business
)
woman Zinc followed up on the status of th chickens on Gawain Lane tha the
ck
s
he
s
ne
at
Councilw
Town Bo
oard discus
ssed at the Novembe 17, 2014 Workshop Meeting. Peter Min
e
er
4
p
notti,
Deputy Supervisor said that he and Chuck Marshall, Acting Com
S
e
k
mmissioner o Public Works,
of
had reso
olved the is
ssue twenty
y-four (24) hours after the initial complaint.
r
Supervis Moore reported tha Fastrac Markets had received t
sor
r
at
M
d
their buildin permits from
ng
the Building Depar
rtment and were beg
d
ginning wor on the constructio of their new
rk
on
convenie
ence store and gasolin filling sta
ne
ation at 182 Hylan Dr
20
rive.
On the motion of Councilman Page, seco
m
C
onded by C
Councilman Mulligan, t Town B
the
Board
motione to enter into Execut
ed
tive Session at 5:07 P.M.
n
Exe
ecutive Se
ession – Re Estate
eal
e
Respectf
fully submit
tted,

a
er
Rebecca B. Wiesne
Town Clerk and Re
eceiver of Ta
axes

6

