TOWN BOARD WORKSHOP
AGENDA
FEBRUARY 2, 2015
4:30 P.M.



(1) Special Permit Public Hearing – February 4, 2015 – 6:45 P.M.
No Public Hearings

1.)

Approval of Minutes of the Preceding Town Board Workshop Meeting
January 20, 2015

2.)

Approval of Minutes at Town Board meeting(s)

3.)

Info Only: Update on Construction Inspectors – Martin

4.)

Consider Authorizing Replacement of Equipment - Parks Department – Eckert
 Pickup Truck
 Zero Turn Mower
 Gator Turf Vehicle

5.)

Info Only: Discuss Highway Projects – Eckert

6.)

Info Only: Discuss Changing Color of Highway Trucks – Eckert

7.)

Consider Awarding 4th of July Fireworks Contract – Young Explosives, Inc. – Kulik

8.)

Info Only: Discuss Update to Website – Taylor

9.)

Consider Authorizing Request for Building Permit Extensions
 72 Farnsworth – Permit R2013-267
 60 Haywards Heath – Permit R2013-222

10.) Info Only: Update on Sewer Billing – Wiesner / Young
11.) Info Only: Update on HR Report - Chirdo
12.) Consider Acknowledging Donation – Town Recreation Facility - Upstate Gymnastics
Boys’ Team – Chirdo
13.) Info Only: Discuss Banking Services - Chirdo
14.) Consider Authorizing Drainage Improvement Projects – BME Associates, P.C. –
Martin
15.) Info Only: Discuss Lake Pamela – Minotti
16.) Info Only: Discuss Drainage Study – Minotti

17.) Info Only: Discuss Backyard Habitat – Minotti
18.) Info Only: Discuss Workers Compensation Loss Ratio - Minotti
19.) Info Only: Discuss Report on Capital Building Plan – Moore
20.) Info Only: Discuss Code Revision Public Hearings – Feb 5, 2015 and Feb 11, 2015 –
Moore
21.) Review Personnel Items – Moore
22.) Consider Bills Payable – Moore
23.) Old Business
Monday, February 2, 2015 – 5:30 P.M.
Fred Rinaldi – Former Kodak Riverwood Campus – 150 Acres

TOWN OF HENRIETTA
TOWN BOARD WORKSHOP MEETING NOTES
FEBRUARY 2, 2015
The regularly scheduled Workshop of the Henrietta Town Board for Tuesday, February 2,
2015 was called to order at 4:30 P.M.
MEMBERS PRESENT
Supervisor Jack W. Moore
Deputy Supervisor Peter C. Minotti
Councilman William J. Mulligan, Jr.
Councilwoman Janet B. Zinck
Councilman M. Rick Page
Councilman Kenneth Breese
Donald A. Young, Town Attorney
Rebecca Wiesner, Town Clerk/Receiver of Taxes


GUESTS/RESIDENTS PRESENT
John Colagrosso
Phil Mancini
Ann Stevens
John Schmitt

(1) Special Permit Public Hearing – February 4, 2015 – 6:45 P.M.

According to Jerry Goldman of Woods Gilman, LLP, the proposed project would be for car
sales, service, and a showroom.


No Public Hearings

1.) Approval of Minutes of the Preceding Town Board Workshop Meeting
January 20, 2015
Councilwoman Zinck made a motion to approve the Town Board Workshop Minutes from
the January 20, 2015 Meeting and Councilman Page seconded the motion.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

2.) Approval of Minutes at Town Board meeting(s)
3.) Info Only: Update on Construction Inspectors – Martin
The new construction inspectors started on Monday, January 26th with an inspector from
BME Associates doing site inspections. Chris Martin, Director of Engineering & Planning
said that a notification letter would be going out to area developers and representatives

TB Workshop February 2, 2015
for all current projects tomorrow to let everyone know that the Town has changed the
inspection process and how they will be charged for inspections.
4.) Consider Authorizing Replacement of Equipment - Parks Department
– Eckert
 Pickup Truck
 Zero Turn Mower
 Gator Turf Vehicle
Craig Eckert, Commissioner of Public Works, reported that he received four (4) quotes for
the pickup truck and that the proposed purchase was the low quote, which was for a Ford
F-250. Lakeland Equipment Corporation was able to get the Town a lower cost for the
zero turn mower by going out to bid. The gator turf vehicle was also cheaper through
Lakeland Equipment Corporation because it was under a state contract. Supervisor
Moore asked about the trade in value of the old equipment and Eckert said that the Town
received four thousand eight hundred one dollars ($4,801.00) for the 2009 mower and
three thousand eight hundred fifty dollars ($3,850.00) for the 2005 gator. The truck
would be sent to the Teitsworth Municipal Auction in the spring of this year. Supervisor
Moore also clarified that the purchases were all in the 2015 budget.
5.) Info Only: Discuss Highway Projects – Eckert
Craig Eckert updated the Town Board on the following projects:
-

Lake Pamela
The Town is waiting on the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP)
approval for the project. The pond has already been lowered by approximately
three feet (3’-0”) and it has gone really well. A quote has been received for the
stone and the Town is waiting on delivery of said stone.

-

Erie Station Road tree removal
The Town is removing poplar trees from Erie Station Road. BME Associates is
processing the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP). Once the plan is
completed, Chris Martin, Director of Engineering & Planning, will review the plan
and once it is approved, the Town can start stump removal. The Town will
continue to cut down trees until the SWPPP is approved.

-

Brush and tree trimming
The Town has been working on brush and tree trimming on right-of-ways between
plow runs.

Supervisor Moore asked how the plowing was going and Eckert said that they started at
3:00 a.m. that day and executed three (3) full runs for twelve (12) straight hours. They
pretreated yesterday with a little bit of salt to aid in the snow removal today.

2

TB Workshop February 2, 2015
6.) Info Only: Discuss Changing Color of Highway Trucks – Eckert
The color specification for the Town of Henrietta trucks is currently lime green, which is
one of the most expensive colors for painting. Eckert told the Town Board that the Town
spends extra money on the lime green color initially upon purchase and also for touch ups.
If the Town is looking at an early return on their investment, the lime green is not a desired
color for resale. Most Towns that are interested in purchasing Town of Henrietta
equipment utilize a red or blue color scheme, so Eckert proposed that switching to either
red or blue would benefit the Town. Eckert brought in color swatches for the Town Board
to review and the consensus of the Town Board was to use blue. As Councilman Breese
pointed out, the Town of Henrietta logo is currently blue. Supervisor Moore explained
that the Town would gradually switch to the new color as they ordered new trucks, rather
than paying to repaint the entire fleet.
7.) Consider Awarding 4th of July Fireworks Contract – Young Explosives,
Inc. – Kulik
Jason Kulik, Director of Parks & Recreation, presented the contract for the Town’s July 4th
fireworks display. The cost from Young Explosives, Inc. of seventeen thousand dollars
($17,000.00) was the same as last year’s cost. Councilman Mulligan asked why we didn’t
need to receive bids for the fireworks display. Barbara Chirdo, Director of Finance,
explained that Young Explosives, Inc. is the only local fireworks provider and that the
other vendors available are from Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
Kulik also reported that there were close to five hundred (500) people at the Recreation
Department’s Winterfest event over the weekend.
8.) Info Only: Discuss Update to Website – Taylor
Michele Taylor, IT Coordinator, reported that she has been gathering information on the
Town of Henrietta website traffic and that people from around the world are looking at the
website.
9.) Consider Authorizing Request for Building Permit Extensions
 72 Farnsworth – Permit R2013-267
 60 Haywards Heath – Permit R2013-222
Councilman Mulligan made a motion to approve a six month extension to the Building
Permit for 72 Farnsworth Road and a one year extension to the Building Permit for 60
Haywards Heath and Councilman Breese seconded the motion.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese

voting
voting
voting
voting

Aye
Aye
Aye
Aye
3

TB Workshop February 2, 2015
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
Carried

10.) Info Only: Update on Sewer Billing – Wiesner / Young
Rebecca Wiesner, Town Clerk/Receiver of Taxes, reported that the due date for the most
recent sewer bill is February 23rd and that the department has been receiving a number of
payments. Wiesner also explained that the meter read date utilized for the most recent
billing was November 4th and so the next billing cycle will include remaining figures for the
2014 year.
Councilman Mulligan inquired whether the Town would still be transitioning to adding
commercial sewer billing charges to tax bills in January of 2016 and Barbara Chirdo,
Director of Finance, confirmed that was the plan.
11.) Info Only: Update on HR Report - Chirdo
Barbara Chirdo, Director of Finance, said that they were scheduled to meet with Driven HR
tomorrow but one of the representatives was stranded in Chicago so the meeting was
rescheduled for Thursday at 11:00 a.m. The meeting with the Union will be on Friday.
12.) Consider Acknowledging Donation – Town Recreation Facility Upstate Gymnastics Boys’ Team – Chirdo
The Upstate Gymnastics Boys’ Team donated four thousand one hundred sixty-three
($4,163.00) toward the purchase of a pommel horse for the Town Recreation Facility.
13.) Info Only: Discuss Banking Services - Chirdo
The Town of Henrietta currently utilizes Chase Bank. Barbara Chirdo, Director of Finance,
reported that the Town is in the process of switching banks and that so far they’ve met
with two (2) banks and will be meeting with two (2) others. Supervisor Moore said that
when he met with Chase Bank a year ago, he was told that it was costing Chase forty-five
thousand dollars ($45,000.00) to host the Town accounts. Moore asked what the Town
could do to lower that cost and the Town did everything Chase asked, but they were now
asking for even more.
14.) Consider Authorizing Drainage
Associates, P.C. – Martin

Improvement

Projects

–

BME

The proposed project is Phase 2 of the Town’s Drainage Improvement Project. During
Phase 1, BME Associates, P.C. studied five (5) tributaries in the Town of Henrietta.
During Phase 2, BME Associates, P.C., will be focusing on two (2) of the five (5) tributaries
identified during Phase 1. The two tributaries to be studied further are 1) the creek west
of Guildhall Road and 2) the creek behind the houses located on the east side of Pinnacle
Road. Chris Martin, Director of Engineering & Planning explained that residents have
4

TB Workshop February 2, 2015
complained about stagnant water in the area behind Pinnacle Road, which is why that was
one of the areas chosen. Supervisor Moore said that the Town would be soliciting bids
from private contractors to clean open ditches. Moore further explained that it has been
sixty (60) years since the last time the open ditches were cleaned. Councilwoman Zinck
asked how often the ditches should be cleaned and Moore said every ten to fifteen (10 –
15) years. Moore felt that if open ditches were cleaned throughout the Town, the Town
would have less water and drainage problems.
15.) Info Only: Discuss Lake Pamela – Minotti
Peter Minotti, Deputy Supervisor, reported to the Town Board that he and Supervisor
Moore are considering taking ownership of Lake Pamela. Due to the tax liens on the
property, a tax foreclosure may be possible. However, Lake Pamela is located on
easement #62, filed in 1973, which may allow the Town to gain access to the site without
taking ownership. Don Young, Town Attorney, advised that the easement be sent to
Mark Costello at Boylan Code since he facilitates Monroe County tax foreclosures.
According to Minotti, the Liber and Page of the easement has been identified, but they
haven’t yet obtained the legal description. Roland Osterwinter, Junior Engineer, would
be sent to the Monroe County Clerk’s Office to obtain a copy of the description.
16.) Info Only: Discuss Drainage Study – Minotti
After the Drainage Improvement Project, explained in #14, is completed, the Town will go
through a bid process and Request for Information (RFI) to clean the open ditches in the
Town. BME Associates has already put together a quadrant study for the open ditches
project. Supervisor Moore said that the ditches would be easier to clean when there’s
frost on the ground and no leaves on the trees. The project itself is modeled after a
similar project completed in the Town of Penfield.
17.) Info Only: Discuss Backyard Habitat – Minotti
The proposed addition to the Town Code regarding backyard habitats was unintentionally
omitted from the draft Town Code revision to be discussed at Public Hearings on
Thursday, February 5th and Wednesday, February 11th. Peter Minotti, Deputy Supervisor,
went through all four hundred sixty-four (464) pages of the proposed Town Code, but the
backyard habitats section did not make it into the final draft. Minotti had worked with
Roland Osterwinter, Junior Engineer, to come up with a draft that would not be in conflict
with existing legislation. The proposed backyard habitat information will be posted in the
Main Meeting Room on eighteen by twenty-four inch (18” x 24”) paper for the upcoming
Public Hearings. Councilman Breese asked whether the backyard habitat proposed Code
would be enforceable and Terry Ekwell, Fire Marshal/Building Inspector, confirmed that it
would be.
18.) Info Only: Discuss Workers Compensation Loss Ratio - Minotti
Peter Minotti, Deputy Supervisor, reported that he received a preliminary look at the 4th
5

TB Workshop February 2, 2015
quarter workers compensation loss ratio and the adverse trend has changed dramatically.
Incurred liability will be almost negligible if we continue on the current trend. Craig
Eckert, Commissioner of Public Works, and Supervisor Moore commended Minotti and
Chuck Marshall, Deputy Supervisor, for the work they’ve done to lower the workers
compensation loss ratio. The Town, with Chuck Marshall’s help, has purchased additional
safety equipment to prevent injuries on the job for Town employees.
19.) Info Only: Discuss Report on Capital Building Plan – Moore
Supervisor Moore distributed a Capital Building Plan to the Town Board Members and
asked that they review it to make sure it was what they had discussed. Moore also asked
that the Board Members sign the document and return it to him. Councilman Mulligan
asked what was happening with the Dome property and Supervisor Moore explained that
a new entity will purchase the property in March and the frontage on Calkins Road may be
available to purchase. Councilman Page said that the Town Board unanimously decided
the Town campus would need to be walkable. Page also reported that instead of doing
the second (2nd) phase of the proposed Recreation Center, the Town Board discussed
going forward with a new library instead, but that first a certain amount of money would
need to be raised so that the Town wouldn’t go into debt building a new library.
Councilman Breese asked whether the proposed Recreation Facility would be located in
Memorial Park instead of on the Dome property. Supervisor Moore said that because the
Town needs to move forward with the project, yes, it would be located in Memorial Park.
20.) Info Only: Discuss Code Revision Public Hearings – Feb 5, 2015 and
Feb 11, 2015 – Moore
Supervisor Moore reminded all in attendance the dates of the upcoming Code Revision
Public Hearings.
21.) Review Personnel Items – Moore
22.) Consider Bills Payable – Moore
23.) Old Business
Terry Ekwell, Fire Marshal/Building Inspector, reported that Fred Rinaldi brought RIT
through the former Kodak Riverwood Campus earlier that day as a possible location for the
RIT Technology Incubator since they have been running out of room at the location on
Lucius Gordon Drive.
Councilman Mulligan asked whether Jerry Goldman has withdrawn his rezoning request on
Ward Hill Road. Supervisor Moore said that it seemed as if Goldman would be moving
forward with the townhouse portion of the project that they don’t need to rezone.
However, the project would need still need to go in front of the Town Board for a Special
Use Permit and in front of the Planning Board.

6

TB W
Workshop Fe
ebruary 2, 2015
Councilm Page asked about the proposed studen housing p
man
a
t
nt
project know as The
wn
Summit. Chris Martin, Directo of Engineering & Pllanning said that a neighborhood
.
or
d
d
meeting was sched
duled for Mo
onday, February 9th.
The Reg
gular Works
shop Meetin of the He
ng
enrietta Tow Board w adjourne at 5:20 P
wn
was
ed
P.M.,
and was adjourned without ob
s
d
bjection.
Monda Februa 2, 2015 – 5:30 P
ay,
ary
5
P.M.
Fred Rin
naldi – For
rmer Koda Riverwo
ak
ood Camp – 150 A
pus
Acres

Respectf
fully submit
tted,

Rebecca B. Wiesne
a
er
Town Clerk / Receiver of Taxe
es

7

