TOWN BOARD WORKSHOP
AGENDA
JANUARY 20, 2015
4:30 P.M.



Two (2) Special Permits – January 21, 2015 – 6:45 p.m.
One (1) Public Hearing – January 21, 2015 – 7:00 p.m.
- Proposed Rezoning of Approximately 46.576 Acres of Land Located at Ward
Hill Road from Residential RR-2 to Residential RR-1 – Lacey Development Corp.
1.) Approval of Minutes of the Preceding Town Board Workshop Meeting
January 5, 2015
2.) Approval of Minutes at Town Board meeting(s)
3.) Consider Authorizing Payment – Arnold Goldman of Goldman and Goldman - Legal
Certiorari Attorney Services – Gabbert
4.) Consider Authorizing Additional Consultant Services – Martin
5.) Consider Authorizing General Engineering and Planning Services – Vanguard
Engineering, P.C. – Martin
6.) Consider Authorizing General Engineering and Planning Services – BME Associates,
P.C. – Martin
7.) Consider Authorizing Landscape Architectural Services – Stantec Consulting
Services, Inc. – Martin
8.) Consider Authorizing Landscape Architectural Services – Environmental Design &
Research, D.P.C. – Martin
9.) Consider Authorizing Construction Observation Services – BME Associates, P.C. –
Martin
10.) Consider Authorizing Construction Observation Services – Fisher Associates, P.E.,
L.S., D.P.C. – Martin
11.) Consider Authorizing Construction Observation Services – Passero Associates, P.C. –
Martin
12.) Consider Authorizing Amendment to Professional Consultant Services – Generic
Enviornmental Impact Statement (GEIS) – Passero Associates – Martin
13.) Consider Authorizing Request for Special Use Permit Extension – Application No.
2013-079, John Street, Empire United Soccer Academy, Inc., to construct a total of
twelve 70’ high sports field light poles and fixtures – Martin

14.) Consider Appointing Member to Parks & Recreation Advisory Board – Kulik
15.) Info Only: Discuss Update to Website – Taylor
16.) Consider Declaring Items Surplus Materials – Henrietta Public Library – Wiesner
17.) Info Only: Discuss Town Clerk’s Office Annual Report - Wiesner
18.) Info Only: Department of Public Works H.R. Interviews Update – Chirdo
19.) Info Only: Discuss Supervisor’s Monthly Report - Chirdo
20.) Consider Calling for Public Hearings – Amendments and Revisions to the Code of
the Town of Henrietta – Minotti
21.) Info Only: Summit Housing Update – Minotti
22.) Info Only: Lake Pamela Update – Minotti
23.) Info Only: Marrano Homes Development Update – Minotti
24.) Info Only: Sewer Billing Update - Young
25.) Info Only: Capital Building Plan – Moore
26.) Review Personnel Items – Moore
27.) Consider Bills Payable – Moore
28.) Old Business

TOWN OF HENRIETTA
TOWN BOARD WORKSHOP MEETING NOTES
JANUARY 20, 2015
The regularly scheduled Workshop of the Henrietta Town Board for Tuesday, January 20,
2015 was called to order at 4:30 P.M.
MEMBERS PRESENT
Supervisor Jack W. Moore
Deputy Supervisor Peter C. Minotti
Councilman William J. Mulligan, Jr.
Councilwoman Janet B. Zinck
Councilman M. Rick Page
Councilman Kenneth Breese
Donald A. Young, Town Attorney
Rebecca Wiesner, Town Clerk/Receiver of Taxes


GUESTS/RESIDENTS PRESENT
John Colagrosso
Phil Mancini
Ann Stevens
John Schmitt

Two (2) Special Permits – January 21, 2015 – 6:45 p.m.

There are two (2) Special Permit applications on the Agenda for Wednesday night, but
they are both for the same applicant, Heritage Christian Services, Inc. A Special Permit
for this project was already approved once before in September of 2012 (SP2012-047 and
SP2012-48) but never came to fruition, so the Town Board anticipated there being no
problem with approving these two applications again. The applicant, Mr. Leenhouts,
came to Town Hall in June to meet with Supervisor Moore and Deputy Supervisor Minotti
about the proposed project.


One (1) Public Hearing – January 21, 2015 – 7:00 p.m.
- Proposed Rezoning of Approximately 46.576 Acres of Land
Located at Ward
Hill Road from Residential RR-2 to
Residential RR-1 – Lacey Development Corp.

The Public Hearing on Wednesday night is regarding the proposed rezoning of acreage on
Ward Hill Road. Lacey Development Corp. is proposing a development utilizing Town
Law §278 so that the lot sizes will be smaller and clustered together, preserving open
space. Local Law No. 3 of 2014 (previously Local Law No. 4 of 2014, but renamed Local
Law No. 3 of 2014 via Resolution #2-55/2015), adopted on December 17, 2014, has
enabled §278 cluster subdivisions to be permitted in rural residential zoned districts. The
earlier omission of this provision in the Town Code was unintentional, but the passing of
Local Law No. 3 of 2014 makes this project feasible. Supervisor Moore stated that he
didn’t see a difference between RR-1 and RR-2 zoned districts; RR-1 has two (2) acre lots
with sanitary sewer and RR-2 has five (5) acre lots without sanitary sewer, but Moore
expressed an opinion that properties shouldn’t have to be rezoned to go from RR-2 to
RR-1. Donald Young, Town Attorney, said that he would take a look at the Town Code to
see if there would be a way to modify so that rezoning wouldn’t be necessary. Lacey

TB Workshop January 20, 2015
Development Corp. asked the Town of Henrietta whether they would be interested in
owning the open space that would be created from this project. If the Town is not
interested, the land would be dedicated to the Genesee Land Trust.
1.) Approval of Minutes of the Preceding Town Board Workshop Meeting
January 5, 2015
Councilman Mulligan made a motion to approve the Town Board Workshop Minutes from
the January 5, 2015 Meeting and Councilman Page seconded the motion.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

2.) Approval of Minutes at Town Board meeting(s)
3.) Consider Authorizing Payment – Arnold Goldman of Goldman and
Goldman - Legal Certiorari Attorney Services – Gabbert
Nate Gabbert, Town Assessor, explained that the proposed Resolution for Wednesday is to
pay Arnold Goldman of Goldman and Goldman for defense work he did in 2014 on
Certiorari proceedings.
4.) Consider Authorizing Additional Consultant Services – Martin
5.) Consider Authorizing General Engineering and Planning Services –
Vanguard Engineering, P.C. – Martin
#4 and #5 were grouped together for Consultant services and General Engineering and
Planning Services from Vanguard Engineering, P.C. Chris Martin, Director of Engineering
& Planning confirmed that Vanguard’s proposed rates are the same as what was charged
for their work in 2014.
6.) Consider Authorizing General Engineering and Planning Services –
BME Associates, P.C. – Martin
Similar to #5, the proposed Resolution is for General Engineering and Planning Services,
but from BME Associates, P.C. Chris Martin, Director of Engineering & Planning, stated
that he utilizes two (2) different engineering firms for these services because it’s good to
have more than one (1) in case one of the firms has a conflict of interest with one of the
projects to be reviewed. Last year, the Town of Henrietta Engineering Department used
2

TB Workshop January 20, 2015
Lu Engineers in addition to Vanguard Engineering, but this year they decided to go with
BME Associates, P.C. The rates are similar to what Vanguard charges, but Vanguard is a
little bit cheaper.
7.) Consider Authorizing Landscape Architectural Services – Stantec
Consulting Services, Inc. – Martin
The Town of Henrietta has used Stantec Consulting Services, Inc. for Landscape
Architectural Services for the last seven (7) or eight (8) years and Martin would like to
continue using their services. An example of the work they do for the Town of Henrietta
is to review site plans and to prepare comments for the Planning Board.
8.) Consider
Authorizing
Landscape
Architectural
Environmental Design & Research, D.P.C. – Martin

Services

–

Similar to why two (2) firms are needed for General Engineering and Planning Services,
two (2) firms are employed for Landscape Architectural Services to avoid any conflict of
interest.
9.) Consider Authorizing Construction Observation Services – BME
Associates, P.C. – Martin
10.) Consider Authorizing Construction Observation Services – Fisher
Associates, P.E., L.S., D.P.C. – Martin
11.) Consider Authorizing Construction Observation Services – Passero
Associates, P.C. – Martin
#9, #10, and #11 were grouped together for Construction Observation Services. Chris
Martin, Director of Engineering & Planning, explained that five (5) different firms
submitted proposals and he decided to go with BME Associates, P.C.; Fisher Associates,
P.E., L.S., D.P.C.; and Passero Associates, P.C. The New York State Comptroller’s Audit
highlighted the Engineering Department inspectors and suggested that the Town either
hire them as Town employees or to utilize engineering firms as separate Construction
Observation Services contractors; the Town decided to address the Comptroller’s
concerns by contracting with local engineering firms. Supervisor Moore said that the
resumes for the three (3) inspectors previously used by the Engineering Department were
forwarded on to each of the three (3) engineering firms contracted by the Town with the
stipulation that if they do hire them, they should not inspect any properties in Henrietta.
12.) Consider Authorizing Amendment to Professional Consultant Services
– Generic Enviornmental Impact Statement (GEIS) – Passero
Associates – Martin
There are two (2) areas in town that lack public water: 1) one area is at the southwest
quadrant of Henrietta along portions of Telephone Road, East River Road, and
3

TB Workshop January 20, 2015
Rush-Henrietta Town Line Road; 2) the other area is along portions of Williams Road,
Reeves Road, and Tobin Road. The goal is to get the entire Town to be serviced by public
water. Since Passero Associates was already employed for a Generic Environmental
Impact Statement (GEIS) for the Town in 2014, it was decided that it would save time and
money to simply amend Passero Associates’ Contract to include a proposed water main
extension feasibility study for one (1) of the areas currently lacking public water. Passero
Associates’ GEIS will now include a water main extension feasibility study for the
southwest quadrant of Henrietta along portions of Telephone Road, East River Road, and
Rush-Henrietta Town Line Road. If the project to add water lines to the area were to
move forward, the Town would coordinate the construction. Supervisor Moore said there
were lots of agricultural districts in that area, which would prohibit the cost to be added to
Special District charges on the tax bill. Councilman Mulligan asked whether the water
lines would be six inches (6”) or twelve inches (12”) in diameter. Chris Martin said that
they would be eight inches (8”) minimum up to twelve inches (12”) maximum and that it
was better spending the extra money for bigger lines. Supervisor Moore stated it is highly
unlikely the area would ever be developed without public water.
13.) Consider Authorizing Request for Special Use Permit Extension –
Application No. 2013-079, John Street, Empire United Soccer
Academy, Inc., to construct a total of twelve 70’ high sports field light
poles and fixtures – Martin
The proposed Special Permit Extension for Application No. 2013-079 is only for the
construction of seventy foot (70’) high field light poles. This Special Permit Application is
in conjunction with the Applicant’s other Application, No. 2013-030 to build five (5) soccer
fields with associated parking areas.
14.) Consider Appointing Member to Parks & Recreation Advisory Board –
Kulik
Jason Kulik, Director of Parks & Recreation, proposed appointment of Shappelle
Thompson as a new member to the Parks & Recreation Advisory Board. Councilwoman
Zinck how many vacancies would be left after Thompson’s appointment, and Kulik replied
that there would be one (1) vacancy remaining. Kulik also said that he established
Thompson’s term expiration as December 31, 2017 so that the expiration dates of the
Board Members would be staggered.
15.) Info Only: Discuss Update to Website – Taylor
Michele Taylor, IT Coordinator, requested that any feedback regarding the new website be
sent to her. Taylor also reported that Diana from BAS, the website designer, was at the
Town Hall on Thursday, January 15th, going over things. Diana also informed Taylor that
the new website offers a lot of statistical data on the usage of the site. Evidently the data
shows that the Town of Henrietta website has a very high use based on the size of the
town.

4

TB Workshop January 20, 2015
16.) Consider Declaring Items Surplus Materials – Henrietta Public Library
– Wiesner
Rebecca Wiesner, Town Clerk/Receiver of Taxes, requested that three (3) items from the
Henrietta Public Library be declared surplus material: a book truck, a table, and some
stacking chairs.
17.) Info Only: Discuss Town Clerk’s Office Annual Report - Wiesner
Per Town Law §123, Rebecca Wiesner, Town Clerk/Receiver of Taxes, presented an
annual report to the Town Board showing all money received and disbursed by the Town
Clerk’s Office during the 2014 year, which was also emailed to the Town Board for their
review prior to the Workshop Meeting. The report also included numbers from 2013 to be
used as a comparison, along with a percentage comparison between 2014 and 2013. A
breakdown of the fees charged by the Town Clerk’s Office and how much is required to be
disbursed to various state agencies was also included for the Town Board’s reference.
18.) Info Only: Department of Public Works H.R. Interviews Update –
Chirdo
A preliminary report from Driven HR was provided last week, but Barbara Chirdo, Director
of Finance, reported that the firm would be coming in tomorrow to discuss observations
and recommendations.
19.) Info Only: Discuss Supervisor’s Monthly Report - Chirdo
The monthly report was emailed to the Town Board prior to the Workshop Meeting for
their review. Chirdo also updated the Town Board that the auditors from Raymond F.
Wager, CPA would be coming in next week to begin their audit.
20.) Consider Calling for Public Hearings – Amendments and Revisions to
the Code of the Town of Henrietta – Minotti
Peter Minotti, Deputy Supervisor, reported that the Town Attorney came up with a
syllabus for moving forward with the Town Code and that so far the Town has completed
three (3) of the ten (10) steps. Donald Young, Town Attorney, reported explained that
the proposed Resolution calling for Public Hearings on the amendments and revisions to
the Town Code is lengthier than what the Town Board may be used to, but thought it was
merited based on the amount of work put into this Code update. Councilman Mulligan
asked what the tentative date for approval of the Code might be and Young thought it
could be adopted by the end of March 2015.
21.) Info Only: Summit Housing Update – Minotti
On Friday, January 16th, the Town received a letter from Jerry Goldman of Woods Oviatt
Gilman, LLP regarding the Special Permit Application No. 2014-056 for Richland
5

TB Workshop January 20, 2015
Residential, Inc.’s proposed student housing development known as The Summit. The
letter requested that the Application be removed from the January 21st Town Board
Agenda so that a written response to the issues raised at the January 7th Town Board
Meeting can be prepared by the Applicant and reviewed by the Town Board. Peter
Minotti, Deputy Supervisor, expressed concern that there may be more of an impact in the
Environmental Assessment Form (EAF) than what the Applicant was suggesting.
Councilman Mulligan wants to deny the Application and felt it would not be fair to bring the
residents in to listen to Jerry Goldman at another meeting in front of the Town Board.
22.) Info Only: Lake Pamela Update – Minotti
Peter Minotti, Deputy Supervisor, reported that the Town has hit a speedbump in the
process of obtaining an emergency permit to stabilize Lake Pamela. New York Code of
Rules and Regulations Part 608 strictly prohibits any digging, dredging, or undermining
any stream, bank, or tributary adjacent to any housing project. The townhouses in the
Riverton subdivision are thirty-five feet (35’) away from Lake Pamela, and the Department
of Environmental Conservation is suggesting that any stabilization work done on the lake
would result in the townhouses falling into the water. The Town needs owner
authorization to move the permit forward, but so far the Town has been unable to locate
any known entity with an incidence of ownership.
23.) Info Only: Marrano Homes Development Update – Minotti
Marrano Homes’ proposed development would be located at the intersection of East
Henrietta Road and Goodburlet Road. Both Peter Minotti, Deputy Supervisor, and Nate
Gabbert, Town Assessor, expressed strong concerns about the proposal in regards to
mapping and it being a condominium project. Minotti presented an inter-office
memorandum dated November 1, 1984 from Chester F. Lehmann, Director of Engineering
& Planning to the Town Board about the Southwick Court Condominiums project, the only
similar condominium project within the Town of Henrietta, stating that condominiums are
outside the Planning Board’s authority. Minotti felt that Lehmann’s memo was loaded
with innuendo about why the condominium project was not a good idea. Gabbert said
that it doesn’t look like what the Applicant describing would actually be a condominium; it
looks more like a townhouse. New York State Real Property Law requires that
condominiums be valued as if they were one entity with each unit owning a proportional
interest in the total. The resulting assessed values are lower than actual market values.
Supervisor Moore felt that there was an argument to be made for a project like this to be
located in a multi-family zone. The Southwick Court Condominiums project already in the
Town is within a multi-family zone, but the location of the proposed condominium project
is not. Supervisor Moore also asked whether the Town Board would have the authority to
deny access to sanitary sewer to a project like this. Councilman Page suggested that the
first step be to find out whether the site would need to be rezoned for the project to move
forward; if it needed to be rezoned, the Town Board would deny it.

6

TB Workshop January 20, 2015
24.) Info Only: Sewer Billing Update - Young
Donald Young, Town Attorney, reported that at a meeting on Monday, January 12th, a
substantial number of issues were resolved, but that the Town isn’t at the end of the road
yet in solving sewer billing problems. Young told the Town Board that the current sewer
bill is overly complicated and that it should be reformulated so that it can be simpler.
Supervisor Moore said that they were able to figure out the methodology behind some of
the decisions made in 2011 regarding the sewer billing; it appears in 2011 they wanted to
send out less bills. Moore also told the Town Board that the situation does not seem to be
as bad as what had been anticipated and that as long as properties weren’t double billed,
the problems can be fixed relatively easy. Councilman Mulligan confirmed with Barbara
Chirdo, the Director of Finance, that the plan was to put the commercial sewer billing
charges on the tax bills beginning in January of 2016.
25.) Info Only: Capital Building Plan – Moore
A building study of the Town Hall, Library, and Town Court was presented to the Town
Board by LaBella Associates at the December 15, 2014 Town Board Workshop; Supervisor
Moore asked the Town Board how they would like to proceed. Councilman Breese said
that renovating Town Hall was the most expensive option. Councilman Page asked
whether the Town Board could have a separate workshop meeting to discuss the options.
Councilman Breese asked that the workshop be held after the Recreation Building
Informational Meeting on January 26th. Supervisor Moore and Councilman Page
suggested that they meet after the State of the Town on Tuesday, January 27th.
Councilwoman Zinck said she would be teaching until 2:00 p.m. and requested that they
not start until after 2:00 p.m. so she could make it to the meeting.
26.) Review Personnel Items – Moore
At Wednesday’s Town Board Meeting, it’s proposed that Charlene Stephany be promoted
to Assistant Assessor. Barbara Chirdo, Director of Finance, said that Charlene has already
taken the required civil service exam and that it is a non-competitive promotion. The
Town Board will also be hiring a part-time office clerk, Andrea Guarino, to take Sheila
Audino’s vacated position.
27.) Consider Bills Payable – Moore
Councilwoman Zinck asked if there was a 2015 list of who will be approving bills.
28.) Old Business
-

Councilman Mulligan asked about Mr. Chiarenza and Supervisor Moore said that no
one was able to locate him.

-

Supervisor Moore said that Captain Wagner is cracking down on solicitors and
panhandlers in Town. Councilman Mulligan said that he stopped to talk to a
7

TB W
Workshop Ja
anuary 20, 2015
gentleman with a “will work for mo
w
w
oney” sign; Mulligan to the gentleman to g in
old
get
th car and he’d get hi a job. The gentlem said h didn’t wa to work that
he
im
T
man
he
ant
k
badly and th he was doing alrigh where he was.
hat
ht
e
-

Supervisor Moore repor
S
M
rted that th Monroe C
he
County Dep
partment of Transporta
f
ation
re
eleased a traffic study showing that there a a lot of speeders o Calkins R
y
t
are
on
Road
and that the Monroe Co
ounty Sherif would be increasing t
ff
their covera in that a
age
area.

-

Supervisor Moore told the Town Board that t
S
M
t
B
two (2) dep
partment he
eads were g
going
to leadership training th
o
p
hrough Dale Carnegie: Commissio
e
:
oner of Pub Works, C
blic
Craig
Eckert, and the Directo of Engine
or
eering & Pla
anning, Chr Martin.
ris

-

Supervisor Moore also said that Te Rice fro the Mon
S
M
s
erry
om
nroe County Departme of
y
ent
Transportation looked at the East River Road corr
T
E
ridor and suggested that
developers in that area enhance the road sy
a
t
ystem. Sup
pervisor Mo
oore hoped that
RIT would be willing to contribute
R
b
o
e.

-

Terry Ekwel Fire Mar
T
ll,
rshal/Buildin Inspect
ng
tor, updated the Tow Board on 47
wn
Summer Sky Drive, whi had sixt
S
y
ich
teen (16) ca parked a
ars
adjacent to the proper in
o
rty
th woods. Ekwell said that he would be visiiting the sit on Monda morning with
he
d
w
te
ay
Code Enforc
C
cement Offic Fred Ro and the Monroe Co
cer
oss
e
ounty Sheri to collect VIN
iff
t
numbers off the vehicle
f
es.

-

Supervisor Moore said that Fastrac hasn’t picked up thei permits fo the appr
S
M
t
c
ir
or
roved
Fastrac locat
tion at the intersection of Hylan D
n
Drive and S
Summer Sk Drive.
ky

-

Terry Ekwell, Fire Mars
T
shal/Buildin Inspecto also me
ng
or,
entioned tha Pole Pos
at
sition
Raceway in the Marketp
R
t
place Mall still owes the Town mo
s
oney for the checkerb
eir
board
si and the two (2) wall signs.
ign
eir
w

The Reg
gular Works
shop Meetin of the He
ng
enrietta Tow Board w moved f adjournm
wn
was
for
ment
by Coun
ncilman Pag at 5:33 P.M., second by Cou
ge
P
ded
uncilman Mu
ulligan, and was adjou
d
urned
without objection.

Respectf
fully submit
tted,

Rebecca B. Wiesne
a
er
Town Clerk / Receiver of Taxe
es

8

