TOWN BOARD WORKSHOP
AGENDA
FEBRUARY 17, 2015
4:30 P.M.



No Special Permits
No Public Hearings

1.)

Approval of Minutes of the Preceding Town Board Workshop Meeting
February 2, 2015

2.)

Approval of Minutes at Town Board meeting(s)

3.)

Info Only: Update on Construction Inspectors – Martin

4.)

Consider Authorizing Advertisement for Bids – 2015 Sanitary Sewer Repairs Project
– Martin

5.)

Info Only: Discuss Transferring Surplus Vehicles – Martin

6.)

Consider Authorizing Supervisor to Sign Contract Documents – New York State
Department of Labor Grant Funding - Marshall

7.)

Consider Authorizing Purchase of Equipment – Highway Department – 6 Wheel
Dump Truck & Plow Equipment – Eckert
 Beau Roc Stainless Steel Truck Body & Tenco Plow Equipment
 2016 Mack Granite GU 712 Chassis

8.)

Consider Awarding Low Quote – Flooring at Tinker and Lookup Park – Eckert

9.)

Info Only: Update on Summer Planning – Swim Lesson Program - Kulik

10.) Info Only: Discuss Update to Website – Taylor
11.) Info Only: Discuss Emergency Contact Listing - Taylor
12.) Consider Placing Property in the Eleventh Historic Site District – 1294 Lehigh Station
Road – Wiesner
13.) Consider Declaring Surplus Items – Town Clerk’s Department – Wiesner
14.) Info Only: Discuss 2015 Polling Sites - Wiesner
15.) Consider Authorizing Advertisement for Bids – Cul-De-Sac Mowing – Chirdo
16.) Consider Authorizing Advertisement for Bids - Creek Cutting - Chirdo

17.) Info Only: Discuss Supervisor’s Report - January 2015 Revenue and Expenditures –
Chirdo
18.) Consider Authorizing Budget Transfers – Chirdo
19.) Consider Acknowledging Donation – Henrietta Recreation Department – Henrietta
Masons Memorial Trust Fund - Chirdo
20.) Consider Authorizing Proposed Local Law No. 1 of 2015 – A Local Law To Update
and Revise the Henrietta Town Code, Including the Ordinances and Local Laws
which Comprise it, by Recodifying the Henrietta Town Code - Minotti
21.) Info Only: Discuss Lake Pamela – Minotti
22.) Info Only: Discuss Rental Registry Public Hearing – February 23, 2015 - Moore
23.) Info Only: Discuss Conversation with Great Rochester Enterprise - Potential
Industrial Sites and IKEA - Moore
24.) Review Personnel Items – Moore
25.) Consider Bills Payable – Moore
26.) Old Business
Executive Session – Real Estate

TOWN OF HENRIETTA
TOWN BOARD WORKSHOP MEETING NOTES
FEBRUARY 17, 2015
The regularly scheduled Workshop of the Henrietta Town Board for Tuesday, February 17,
2015 was called to order at 4:30 P.M.
MEMBERS PRESENT
GUESTS/RESIDENTS PRESENT
Supervisor Jack W. Moore
Mike Stafford
Deputy Supervisor Peter C. Minotti
Phil Mancini
Councilman William J. Mulligan, Jr.
Councilwoman Janet B. Zinck
Councilman M. Rick Page
Councilman Kenneth Breese
Rebecca Wiesner, Town Clerk and Receiver of Taxes
MEMBERS ABSENT
Donald A. Young, Town Attorney



No Special Permits
No Public Hearings

1.) Approval of Minutes of the Preceding Town Board Workshop Meeting
February 2, 2015
Councilman Page made a motion to approve the Town Board Workshop Minutes from the
February 2, 2015 Meeting and Councilwoman Zinck seconded the motion.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

2.) Approval of Minutes at Town Board meeting(s)
3.) Info Only: Update on Construction Inspectors – Martin
Chris Martin, Director of Engineering & Planning, reported that things have been slow
because most project sites have been temporarily shut down due to the weather.

TB Workshop February 17, 2015
4.) Consider Authorizing Advertisement for Bids – 2015 Sanitary Sewer
Repairs Project – Martin
The 2015 Sanitary Sewer Repairs Project is an annual spot repair and lateral replacement
project. Supervisor Moore asked about the footage of the 2015 project and Chris Martin,
Director of Engineering & Planning, replied that the total footage was a little less than last
year’s because they’re doing more sliplining this year. Councilman Page asked whether
there have been any problems with Fineline Pipeline and Supervisor Moore said that
Fineline came in for more work last year to address safety concerns. Martin added that
additional verbiage has been added to Town specifications to prevent any future
problems. Supervisor Moore said that the new sewer camera should aid work on the
sewer lines. Councilman Mulligan mentioned that numerous shoulder injuries resulted
from using the previous camera, which was much larger.
5.) Info Only: Discuss Transferring Surplus Vehicles – Martin
Since the Engineering Department now utilizes various engineering firms for construction
inspection services, three (3) vehicles previously utilized by construction inspectors hired
by the Town were transferred to the Department of Public Works. Since it was a transfer
of inventory between departments, a Town Board Resolution is not required; the memo
from the Engineering Department was sufficient.
6.) Consider Authorizing Supervisor to Sign Contract Documents – New
York State Department of Labor Grant Funding - Marshall
Chuck Marshall, Deputy Commissioner of Public Works, explained that this is part of a
three (3) year grant from the New York State Department of Labor through their hazard
abatement program for OSHA Safety training. The proposed Resolution is for the Town
Supervisor to sign the required contract documents for fiscal year 2016 funding, the third
(3rd) year of the three (3) year grant.
7.) Consider Authorizing Purchase of Equipment – Highway Department
– 6 Wheel Dump Truck & Plow Equipment – Eckert
i. Beau Roc Stainless Steel Truck Body & Tenco Plow
Equipment
ii. 2016 Mack Granite GU 712 Chassis
The Beau Roc Stainless Steel Truck Body & Tenco Plow Equipment includes a front
reversible plow and hydraulic wing plow and the 2016 Mack Granite GU 712 Chassis is a six
(6) wheel dump truck. Supervisor Moore said that this would be the first stainless steel
truck body purchased by the Town. Barbara Chirdo asked whether the new truck was
going to be a blue color, since that is what the Town Board decided on at the February 2,
2015 Town Board Workshop Meeting. Craig Eckert, Commissioner of Public Works, said
that the Town Board needs to choose the exact blue color and that he would prefer the
selected color to be lighter rather than darker to stay away from dusk and dawn colors.
2

TB Workshop February 17, 2015
Eckert preferred either Napa Blue or Bright Blue, and the DPW employees favored Napa
Blue. The Town Board said to move forward with the color favored by the DPW
employees, Napa Blue.
8.) Consider Awarding Low Quote – Flooring at Tinker and Lookup Park –
Eckert
The proposed flooring project is to replace the flooring at the Hansen Nature Center and
at the newly renovated cabin in Lookup Park. Supervisor Moore said that the flooring
material would be an epoxy floor system. Terry Ekwell, Fire Marshal/Building Inspector,
noted that the epoxy flooring holds up really well in high traffic areas. Although the
flooring at the Lookup Park cabin was included in the quote, it wasn’t included in the
Resolution, so the Resolution would be updated before Wednesday’s Town Board Meeting.
9.) Info Only: Update on Summer Planning – Swim Lesson Program Kulik
Jason Kulik, Director of Parks and Recreation, told the Town Board that the Recreation
Department is currently planning summer programs. Dave Moriarty, Senior Recreation
Supervisor, has been trying to find a pool that the Recreation Department can use for
summer swim lessons since the pool at Rush-Henrietta Central School District’s Senior
High School is being renovated. So far, Moriarty has contacted 1) Monroe Community
College; 2) Pittsford Mendon High School; 3) Raddison Hotel; 4) Riverton Community
Pool; 5) Brighton High School; and 6) Wheatland Chili High School. The Brighton
Recreation Department said that they would be willing to accommodate Henrietta
residents in their swim program. RIT may have some limited days and times available
throughout the summer and Moriarty will be meeting with them later this month to discuss
options. Daytime hours are not available at Monroe Community College, but the Golden
Comets Program could be accommodated on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday evenings.
Wheatland Chili and Pittsford Mendon High School pools are also being renovated this
summer. The Riverton pool is not available because they offer their own summer swim
lessons. Councilman Page asked about the pool at the Pieters Family Life Center and
Kulik said he’d have Moriarty contact them.
Also, Anita Tichachek, Recreation Supervisor, sent out the afterschool lottery style
registration applications. The lottery applications will be accepted beginning Monday,
March 2nd and the deadline to return the applications to the Recreation Department is
Friday, March 27th. Families will be notified by Tuesday, March 31st of the results.
10.) Info Only: Discuss Update to Website – Taylor
Michele Taylor, IT Coordinator, said that she has worked out the problems with the “Read
More” button on the website. Councilman Breese asked whether the Town departments
were sending updates to the website and the Town calendar and Taylor said that she’s
seen an improvement. Craig Eckert, Commissioner of Public Works, added that the
roadwork updates listed on the website are handled by the DPW.
3

TB Workshop February 17, 2015
11.) Info Only: Discuss Emergency Contact Listing - Taylor
Since the IT Department now consists of just one (1) person, Michele Taylor, IT
Coordinator, created a contact list of who to contact in the event of any technical issues in
her absence.
12.) Consider Placing Property in the Eleventh Historic Site District – 1294
Lehigh Station Road – Wiesner
In 1988, the residents at 1294 Lehigh Station Road, Greg and Bonnie Kase, had an
opportunity to be included in the Eleventh Historic Site District, but they declined. Bonnie
Kase contacted the Town Historian in January requesting that their home be added to the
local historic site district and so the proposed Resolution is to amend the Eleventh Historic
Site District to include 1294 Lehigh Station Road.
13.) Consider Declaring Surplus Items – Town Clerk’s Department –
Wiesner
Rebecca Wiesner, Town Clerk and Receiver of Taxes, explained that while preparing the
2015 Town Clerk’s Office inventory, a number of items no longer in the department
flagged to be declared surplus, were never formally declared surplus via Town Board
Resolution. Therefore, the proposed Resolution is to formally remove items from the
Town Clerk’s Office inventory that has not been in the department for over two (2) years.
14.) Info Only: Discuss 2015 Polling Sites - Wiesner
Rebecca Wiesner, Town Clerk and Receiver of Taxes, updated the Town Board on polling
sites in Henrietta. Polling Place Agreements are sent out each year to the twelve (12)
polling sites currently utilized in Henrietta, one of them being the Monroe County Fair &
Expo Center, which houses four (4) election districts. The Monroe County Fair &
Recreation Association responded to the Polling Place Agreement with a letter stating that
due to the uncertain future of the property, they are unable to commit to being a polling
place in 2015. A copy of this letter was sent to the Monroe County Board of Elections and
they are working on finding an alternative site(s).
15.) Consider Authorizing Advertisement for Bids – Cul-De-Sac Mowing –
Chirdo
16.) Consider Authorizing Advertisement for Bids - Creek Cutting - Chirdo
Items (15) and (16) were discussed together. Although the two bids are similar, they are
handled separately due to the different equipment required because of the different
environments. Previously, the Town utilized three (3) year contracts for cul-de-sac
mowing and creek cutting, but this year the Town has decided to offer one (1) year
contracts with the option to renew for an additional year. Craig Eckert mentioned that in
4

TB Workshop February 17, 2015
prior years, a lof the cul-de-sacs on the list weren’t cut by the company awarded the bid
because the residents in the area cut them themselves.
17.) Info Only: Discuss Supervisor’s Report - January 2015 Revenue and
Expenditures – Chirdo
Barbara Chirdo, Director of Finance, emailed the report to the Town Board earlier today.
18.) Consider Authorizing Budget Transfers – Chirdo
Many of the budget transfers on the list were to close out the 2014 budgeted figures.
19.) Consider Acknowledging Donation – Henrietta Recreation
Department – Henrietta Masons Memorial Trust Fund - Chirdo
The Henrietta Masons Memorial Trust Fund has donated two hundred dollars ($200.00)
towards the Henrietta Recreation Department.
20.) Consider Authorizing Proposed Local Law No. 1 of 2015 – A Local Law
To Update and Revise the Henrietta Town Code, Including the
Ordinances and Local Laws which Comprise it, by Recodifying the
Henrietta Town Code - Minotti
Peter Minotti, Deputy Supervisor, explained that he met with Town Attorney Donald Young
on Thursday and that the Town is ready to adopt the Code revisions. Minotti also met
with Barbara Chirdo, Director of Finance, and Meribeth Palmer, Administrative Assistant to
the Supervisor, to go over the color of the new Code books and they decided on blue books
with a white Town of Henrietta logo. Twelve (12) books were included in the original
contract price, but Terry Ekwell, Fire Marshal/Building Inspector, was charged with tallying
up how many books were actually needed and he came up with eighteen (18) total books.
The Town is able to purchase the additional six (6) books at a cost of sixty-five dollars
($65.00) a book.
21.) Info Only: Discuss Lake Pamela – Minotti
In order to make the necessary improvements to Lake Pamela, the Town Supervisor
signed New York State Department of Environmental Conservation’s Joint Application
Form for and on behalf of the Town of Henrietta as easement holder. The Town of
Henrietta asked the New York State DEC for a waiver on the fifteen (15) day waiting period
for the necessary Permit. Peter Minotti, Deputy Supervisor, hoped that the Permit under
Environmental Conservation Law would be issued based on the Joint Application the
Supervisor signed and arrive tomorrow.

5

TB Workshop February 17, 2015
22.) Info Only: Discuss Rental Registry Public Hearing – February 23, 2015
- Moore
Councilman Page mentioned that he received an email from St. Marianne Cope Roman
Catholic Parish about the rental registry and inquired about amending the verbiage to
relieve church-owned property from the rental registry. Councilman Mulligan thought it
would be a good idea. Nathan Gabbert, Town Assessor, added that a lot of
church-owned rental properties are located adjacent to the actual religious institution and
are not actually on religious property. Peter Minotti, Deputy Supervisor, said that he
would talk to Town Attorney Donald Young about it since there is Town Board support.
23.) Info Only: Discuss Conversation with Great Rochester Enterprise Potential Industrial Sites and IKEA - Moore
Supervisor Moore spoke to Mark Peterson from Greater Rochester Enterprise and asked
why FedEx chose Farmington as a location for a new distribution center and not Henrietta.
Moore is working on adding additional industrial land in Henrietta and anticipates state
and federal projects coming our way in the near future. Moore has also contacted
representatives from IKEA about opening a store here in Henrietta. Moore said that the
advertisements IKEA has been running in our area indicate that they are considering
opening a store in the region and due to the proximity and size of Syracuse and Buffalo,
there’s a good chance they might locate in either Henrietta or Victor.
24.) Review Personnel Items – Moore
There are two (2) personnel updates; both are wingpeople that haven’t yet been updated.
25.) Consider Bills Payable – Moore
26.) Old Business
Councilman Page asked about the Mobil gas station at the intersection of Bailey and West
Henrietta Road. Under the current building permit, they have until October to complete
the work; however the Supervisor and Terry Ekwell, Fire Marshal/Building Inspector, have
spoken to the owner about speeding up progress.
Councilman Page asked if anything could be done about the Sunoco station at the corner
of Jefferson Road and East River Road, which is covered in graffiti, but located in the Town
of Brighton.
Supervisor Moore said that the cabin in Lookup Park will be ready once the flooring is put
in. A name for the cabin hasn’t yet been established. Because the other Town cabins
(Roberts and Bushman) were named after early Henrietta Settlers, Tina Thompson, Town
Historian, sent two suggestions to the Town Board: 1) Baldwin (in honor of Charles
Baldwin) or 2) Kirby (in honor of Elihu and Mary Kirby).

6

TB Wo
orkshop Feb
bruary 17, 2015
m
C
onded by C
Councilman Mulligan, t Town B
the
Board
On the motion of Councilman Page, seco
motione to enter into Execut
ed
tive Session at 5:15 P.M.
n
Exe
ecutive Se
ession – Re Estate
eal
e
Respectf
fully submit
tted,

Rebecca B. Wiesne
a
er
Town Clerk / Receiver of Taxe
es

7

