TOWN BOARD WORKSHOP
AGENDA
MARCH 2, 2015
4:30 P.M.



(1) Special Permit – March 4, 2015 – 6:45 P.M.
No Public Hearings

1.)

Approval of Minutes of the Preceding Town Board Workshop Meeting
February 17, 2015

2.)

Approval of Minutes at Town Board meeting(s)

3.)

Consider Awarding Low Bid – Extension 37 Relief Sewer Project – Martin

4.)

Consider Declaring Items Surplus Material – Highway Department / Parks
Department - Eckert

5.)

Info Only: Discuss February Plow Run Data – Snow & Ice - Eckert

6.)

Info Only: Discuss License Agreement for Columns in Right-of-Way - Eckert

7.)

Consider Appointing Members to Boards – Youth Board & Parks and Recreation
Advisory Board - Kulik

8.)

Consider Recognizing Year 2015 Youth Hall of Fame Inductees - Kulik

9.)

Consider Authorizing Building Permit Extensions – Eckwell



1775 Erie Station Road – Permit 2011-024 - Final Inspection
275 Vollmer Parkway – R2013-387 - Shed

10.) Info Only: Human Resource Report – Driven H.R. – Chirdo
11.) Consider Authorizing Budget Transfers – Chirdo
12.) Consider Authorizing Budget Transfers – Highway Machinery Account - Chirdo
13.) Consider Adopting Online Banking Policy- Chirdo
14.) Info Only: Discuss Lake Pamela – Report on Progress and Show Pictures – Minotti
15.) Info Only: Discuss Rental Registry - Moore
16.) Info Only: Discuss HVAC Inspection Report for Town Hall & Library – Review
Recommendations of Upgrades - LaBella – Moore

17.) Consider Authorizing Name Designation for Lookup Park Cabin – Moore
18.) Consider Authorizing Supervisor to Sign Lease Agreement – Rush Henrietta Area
Food Terminal – Moore
19.) Info Only: Discuss Video Footage Storage - Moore
20.) Review Personnel Items – Moore
21.) Consider Bills Payable – Moore
22.) Old Business
Monday, March 2, 2015 – 5:00 P.M. – Main Meeting Room
The Summit – Doug Eldred – BME Associates / Fred Rinaldi

TOWN OF HENRIETTA
TOWN BOARD WORKSHOP MEETING NOTES
MARCH 2, 2015
The regularly scheduled Workshop of the Henrietta Town Board for Monday, March 2,
2015 was called to order at 4:30 P.M.
MEMBERS PRESENT
GUESTS/RESIDENTS PRESENT
Supervisor Jack W. Moore
Phil Mancini
Deputy Supervisor Peter C. Minotti
John Schmitt
Councilman William J. Mulligan, Jr.
Councilwoman Janet B. Zinck
Councilman M. Rick Page
Councilman Kenneth Breese
Donald A. Young, Town Attorney
Rebecca Wiesner, Town Clerk and Receiver of Taxes


(1) Special Permit – March 4, 2015 – 6:45 P.M.

The Special Permit Application to be heard at Wednesday’s meeting is for a resident to
have seven (7) dogs, while the Town Code allows only three (3).


No Public Hearings

1.) Approval of Minutes of the Preceding Town Board Workshop Meeting
February 17, 2015
Councilman Page made a motion to approve the Town Board Workshop Minutes from the
February 17, 2015 Meeting and Councilwoman Zinck seconded the motion.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

2.) Approval of Minutes at Town Board meeting(s)
3.) Consider Awarding Low Bid – Extension 37 Relief Sewer Project –
Martin
Chris Martin, Director of Engineering & Planning, was not present for the Workshop due to
attendance at a Dale Carnegie Training class, so Supervisor Moore filled in for him. The

TB Workshop March 2, 2015
Extension 37 Relief Sewer Project is located between Bailey Road and Commerce Drive.
Moore explained that Martin called Land Tech Surveying & Planning, PLLC to confirm that
their bid for $23,300.00 was still a good number as it was significantly lower than the other
bids received. Land Tech Surveying & Planning already had some data that would aid
them in the project, helping their bid amount to be lower than the others. Barbara
Chirdo, Director of Finance, said that this project was part of the overall sewer budget for
2015.
4.) Consider Declaring Items Surplus Material – Highway Department /
Parks Department - Eckert
5.) Info Only: Discuss February Plow Run Data – Snow & Ice - Eckert
Supervisor Moore filled in for Craig Eckert, Commissioner of Public Works, who was also at
a Dale Carnegie Training class. Approximately forty-two point five inches (42.5”) of snow
has accumulated in the region so far this season and there have been a total of sixty-six
(66) plow runs in twenty-eight (28) days. Councilman Mulligan felt it was crazy the plow
trucks were out earlier today when there was only an inch of snow. Supervisor Moore
said that he rode along on that morning’s plow run from 3:00 – 6:00 a.m.
6.) Info Only: Discuss License Agreement for Columns in Right-of-Way Eckert
Cassie Rich at Boylan Code, LLP helped Craig Eckert, Commissioner of Public Works, put
together a license agreement regarding brick monuments at the end of driveways in the
Town of Henrietta. Many of these brick monuments are located within the Town’s
right-of-way and so the license agreement would enable these brick monuments to remain
in the right-of-way as an existing condition, but it eliminates the Town’s liability if anything
should happen to them. Supervisor Moore felt that this was a better option than forcing
residents to remove the brick monuments as they classed up the neighborhoods they’re
located in.
7.) Consider Appointing Members to Boards – Youth Board & Parks and
Recreation Advisory Board - Kulik
The proposed appointments include William Hall and Michael Paladino to the Youth Board
and Jody McShea to the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board. Councilman Breese
mentioned that McShea would be filling the last vacancy on the Parks and Recreation
Advisory Board.
8.) Consider Recognizing Year 2015 Youth Hall of Fame Inductees - Kulik

2

TB Workshop March 2, 2015
9.) Consider Authorizing Building Permit Extensions – Eckwell
a. 1775 Erie Station Road – Permit 2011-024 - Final Inspection
b. 275 Vollmer Parkway – R2013-387 – Shed
Supervisor Moore asked whether the owners of 1775 Erie Station Road understood that
they couldn’t rent the property. Terry Ekwell, Fire Marshal/Building Inspector, said that
the original permit was issued four (4) years ago and that typically the reason owners
come back for a final inspection after so much time has passed is because they want to sell
the property.
Councilwoman Zinck made a motion to approve a thirty (30) day building permit extension
for 1775 Erie Station Road and a six (6) month building permit extension for 275 Vollmer
Parkway, and Councilman Mulligan seconded the motion.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

10.) Info Only: Human Resource Report – Driven H.R. – Chirdo
Frank Cania from Driven HR presented a report to the Department of Public Works
personnel and Barbara Chirdo said that there was some give and take on both sides during
the presentation.
Chirdo also mentioned that Frank DiSano from Dale Carnegie Training would be coming to
Town Hall on Thursday for communication styles training from 1:00 – 2:30 p.m. There
are twenty-one (21) Town employees on the list for the training, which includes
department heads and seven (7) union members.
11.) Consider Authorizing Budget Transfers – Chirdo
12.) Consider Authorizing Budget Transfers – Highway Machinery Account
- Chirdo
The proposed budget transfer is to transfer $28,532.00 from the Highway Machinery
Account to the Capital Machinery Account to be used towards the purchase of a six (6)
wheel dump truck, which was already authorized via Town Board Resolution #5-85/2015
and #5-86/2015. Councilman Page asked if the Town would make transfers to the
capital reserve project fund once a year in the future. Supervisor Moore said that the goal
is to purchase equipment in the first quarter to get it done with. Councilman Page also
asked about transferring the fund balance to the new construction project fund and Chirdo
3

TB Workshop March 2, 2015
said that there was currently five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) in the fund.
13.) Consider Adopting Online Banking Policy- Chirdo
Barbara Chirdo, Director of Finance, explained that the Town has been using online
banking for a long time, but there’s never been a written policy.
14.) Info Only: Discuss Lake Pamela – Report on Progress and Show
Pictures – Minotti
Peter Minotti, Deputy Supervisor said that the Town has received the official DEC permit
for the work at Lake Pamela and the progress pictures were already emailed to the Town
Board. Minotti said that the work was going really well so far. Supervisor Moore and
Deputy Supervisor Minotti have met with the new managers at the Riverton Community
Association. The Association offered to put twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00)
towards the project, but Supervisor Moore rejected the proposal because he’s looking for
a forty thousand dollar ($40,000.00) contribution.
15.) Info Only: Discuss Rental Registry - Moore
A Public Hearing was held regarding a proposed rental registry on February 23rd.
Supervisor Moore stated that after listening to the residents’ input at the Public Hearing, it
was evident that more work was necessary before adoption of a rental registry, so Donald
Young, Town Attorney, is revising the rental registry document. Moore does not want to
adopt something that can be challenged in court. Councilman Mulligan asked about the
fees other towns in the area were charging and Terry Ekwell, Fire Marshal/Building
Inspector, replied that Brockport charges one hundred thirty-five dollars ($135.00) and
East Rochester charges three hundred dollars ($300.00). The fee proposed at the
February 23rd Public Hearing was five hundred dollars ($500,00), which Moore stated was
out of line based on what other towns are charging. One of the speakers at the February
23rd Public Hearing was a constitutional lawyer who stated that it may not be constitutional
to go in to the rental properties and inspect, so Moore asked why other towns with rental
registries weren’t challenged. Ekwell said that the Town would need to educate the
landlords, but that the tenant always has the right to call the Town with any problems.
16.) Info Only: Discuss HVAC Inspection Report for Town Hall & Library –
Review Recommendations of Upgrades - LaBella – Moore
Supervisor Moore forwarded LaBella Associates’ proposal for the HVAC inspection report
for the Town Hall and the Henrietta Public Library to the Town Board. The proposal for
mechanical/electrical services was twelve thousand five hundred dollars ($12,500.00) and
the proposal for asbestos pre-renovation inspection and testing was eleven thousand nine
hundred dollars ($11,900.00), but if the Town Board accepted the proposal today, LaBella
was willing to reduce the cost to ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for each aspect of the
project. Councilman Page mentioned that in the Town’s capital building plan, the Town
Hall was going to be the last building addressed and Councilwoman Zinck added that even
4

TB Workshop March 2, 2015
if the library were to move to a different building, the current building would still be used
by the Town. The Town Board Members were all in favor of approving both the proposal
for mechanical/electrical services and the proposal for asbestos pre-renovation inspection
and testing for a combined total of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00).
17.) Consider Authorizing Name Designation for Lookup Park Cabin –
Moore
Tina Thompson, Town Historian, sent two (2) name designation options for the Lookup
Park Cabin to the Town Board for consideration: Baldwin in honor of Charles Baldwin or
Kirby in honor of Elihu and Mary Kirby. Based on the information sent to the Town Board,
they decided on Baldwin. Councilman Page asked if there were any remaining members
of the family in Town, but Supervisor Moore said there were not.
18.) Consider Authorizing Supervisor to Sign Lease Agreement – Rush
Henrietta Area Food Terminal – Moore
The lease agreement between the Town of Henrietta and the Rush-Henrietta Area Food
Terminal is a fifteen (15) year agreement that was last authorized via Resolution
#5-80/2000 on February 16, 2000.
19.) Info Only: Discuss Video Footage Storage - Moore
Supervisor Moore reported that there was a lack of storage space for video footage due to
multiple Freedom of Information Law (F.O.I.L.) requests for audio/video footage.
Therefore, Moore proposed reducing the retention time of video footage to three (3) days.
Moore explained that this was an unusual situation as residents hadn’t previously
submitted F.O.I.L. requests for audio/video footage until recently. Councilman Breese
expressed a concern that if there was a three (3) day weekend, the Town might need to
have a longer retention period in the event of theft or vandalism. Councilman Page asked
what the current retention period was and Moore replied that it was thirty-eight (38) days.
Councilwoman Zinck and Councilman Breese felt that a reduction to seven (7) or fourteen
(14) days might be more appropriate than three (3) days. The Town Board agreed to
reduce the retention time to seven (7) days, but once the requests for audio/video footage
reduces and the current F.O.I.L. requested footage can be deleted, the retention time will
go back to thirty-eight (38) days.
20.) Review Personnel Items – Moore
21.) Consider Bills Payable – Moore
22.) Old Business
Councilman Mulligan asked whether the Town’s supply of salt was holding out.
Supervisor Moore said that due to good management, Henrietta hasn’t been experiencing
some of the problems other towns are facing.
5

TB Workshop March 2, 2015
B
p
m
C
man
s
by
man
the
Board
On the motion of Councilwom Zinck, seconded b Councilm Page, t Town B
motione to enter into Execut
ed
tive Session following T Summit Presentat
n
The
tion.
The Reg
gular Works
shop Meetin of the He
ng
enrietta Tow Board w adjourne at 5:03 P
wn
was
ed
P.M.,
and the Town Boar moved in the Main Meeting R
rd
nto
Room for T Summit Presentati
The
t
ion.
Monda March 2, 2015 – 5:00 P.M. – Main M
ay,
2
.
Meeting Ro
oom
The Sum
mmit – Do
oug Eldred – BME As
d
ssociates / Fred Rin
naldi
Exe
ecutive Se
ession – Re Estate
eal
e
Respectf
fully submit
tted,

a
er
Rebecca B. Wiesne
Town Clerk and Re
eceiver of Ta
axes

6

