HENRIETTA TOWN BOARD
AGENDA
JANUARY 7, 2015
7:00 P.M.
Supervisor Moore
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
ORDER OF BUSINESS
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

6.
7.

8.
9.
10.
11.
12.

Roll Call
Prayer
Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag
Public Presentation/Agenda Items
Approval of Minutes of the Preceding Meeting(s):
December 17, 2014 Regular Meeting
January 2, 2015 Organizational Meeting
On Motion of: Councilman Page
Seconded by: Councilman Breese
Miscellaneous Communications
Special Permit Public Hearing:
-Application No. 2014-056: 4545 East River Road, Richland Residential, to
construct 185 cottage style houses for student housing, in an Industrial
Zoned District, Tax Account No. 174.03-2-1.11.
Introduction of and Action Upon Local Laws, Ordinances, Resolutions
Reports of Standing Committees and Actions Thereon
Reports of Special Committees
Public Comment
Adjournment

RESOLUTION #2-47/2015
Authorize Accounts Payable
RESOLUTION #2-48/2015
Authorize Supervisor to Sign Out of District Sanitary Sewer Contract – 632 John
Street
RESOLUTION #2-49/2015
Authorize Attendance of the New York State Building Officials Conference
RESOLUTION #2-50/2015
Authorize Supervisor to Sign Amendatory Agreement – County of Monroe All
Seasons County/Town Work Agreement
RESOLUTION #2-51/2015
Declare Item Surplus Material – Henrietta Public Library

RESOLUTION #2-52/2015
Authorize Standard Work Days for Elected and Appointed Officials
RESOLUTION #2-53/2015
Appoint Delegate and Alternate Delegate for Associations of Towns Annual
Business Meeting
RESOLUTION #2-54/2015
Authorize the Henrietta Foundation to Run the Driving Range at Lookup Park
RESOLUTION #2-55/2015
Renumber Local Law Amending the Town Code to Allow New York State Town
Law §278 Cluster Subdivisions to be Permitted in RR Districts
RESOLUTION #2-56/2015
Adopt 2015-2016 Henrietta Recreation Department Afterschool Program Fees
RESOLUTION #2-57/2015
Authorize Personnel Items

PURSUANT TO CALL A REGULAR MEETING OF THE TOWN BOARD OF THE
TOWN OF HENRIETTA, COUNTY OF MONROE, STATE OF NEW YORK, WAS DULY HELD
AT THE HENRIETTA TOWN HALL, 475 CALKINS ROAD, HENRIETTA, NEW YORK ON
THE 7th DAY OF JANUARY 2015 AT 7:00 P.M.
MEMBERS PRESENT
Supervisor Jack W. Moore
Councilman William J. Mulligan, Jr.
Councilman M. Rick Page
Councilman Kenneth Breese
Donald A. Young, Esq., Town Attorney
Rebecca B. Wiesner, Town Clerk / Receiver of Taxes
MEMBERS ABSENT
Councilwoman Janet B. Zinck

(SILENT PRAYER)
(PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Could I please have the approval of the December 3rd Town Board Minutes?
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
Mr. Supervisor, I move we approve the December third (3rd) Town Board Meeting.
COUNCILMAN PAGE
Second.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion?
REBECCA WIESNER, TOWN CLERK / RECIEVER OF TAXES
The December third (3rd) Minutes are already approved, this should be December
seventeenth (17th) and January second (2nd).
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Oh, I’m sorry. I’m reading from what I have on this.
REBECCA WIESNER, TOWN CLERK / RECIEVER OF TAXES
I’m sorry.

TB January 7, 2015
SUPERVISOR MOORE
We’ll do December seventeenth (17th)…
REBECCA WIESNER, TOWN CLERK / RECIEVER OF TAXES
Yes.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
…Town Board Minutes.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
So it’s incorrect on this paper.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Well I have the third (3rd).
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
I’ve got the third (3rd) too.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Yes. Should be the seventeenth (17th).
COUNCILMAN BREESE
You move that, I’ll second.
COUNCILMAN PAGE
I will move the Minutes of the December seventeenth (17th) Meeting and also the
January second (2nd) Organizational Meeting.
COUNCILMAN BREESE
Second.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion? Please call the roll.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Abstain
voting
Absent
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

2

TB January 7, 2015
SUPERVISOR MOORE
The first thing on the Agenda tonight is our Special Permit hearing for Application No.
2014-056, 4545 East River Road, Richland Residential to construct 185 cottage style
homes for student housing in an Industrial Zoned District. We have Mr. Goldman here
to represent the applicant.
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
Good evening Mr. Supervisor, members of the Board, my name is Jerry Goldman, I’m
the attorney and agent for Richland Residential who is the project sponsor for the
proposed Summit student housing project to be located on the northern one third (1/3)
of the Kodak Riverwood Campus. With me tonight on the application is Doug Eldred
and Andrew Murrows of the BME Engineering group, who are the project engineers.
Unfortunately the project’s sponsor, Martin Mehall and his son Brent Mehall from
Richland Residential could not make it here this evening from Cleveland. They do
extend their apologies, but we are here tonight to talk about our application for a
Special Permit for this site, and in particular, I would like to point out the focus of our
comments will be on the Special Permit, which is the topic that the Board is supposed
to look at which is the use of the property. There’s been a lot of discussion which has
gone on, both with regard to the use as well as the proposed site development of this
fifty-six (56) acre parcel. We presented initially, this has been going on for awhile in
terms of the review of this particular property, and the Mehall’s engaged BME to do a
plan. It was initially discussed with the Town Board at a Workshop on December first
(1st) and then subsequent to that, a neighborhood meeting was scheduled and on
December fifteenth (15th) there was a neighborhood meeting which was held at the
Radisson and I believe many of the people in the audience were at that particular
session and had an opportunity to have an exchange primarily with Doug on the
application itself. What I’d like to do is to start out Doug with the map which gives us
our setting, which is this setting over here and it’s a little bit, this one may be a little bit
difficult to read, but the project site is located on the west side of East River Road, just
south of Fairview Drive and the uses on the drive, which include the Racquet Club
Apartments for RIT, the Osher Living Center, the Riparian, the, as well as Rivers Run
and the Gosnell Boathouse. South of our site is also, is the remainder of the Riverwood
Campus, with a building which is already there. On the east side of the road is
primarily vacant land at the present time. The zoning map indicates exactly where we
are on the project site and that one’s a little bit easier to see, and I will share it for both
the Board and for the public here. Our project site is located on the north side of the
Kodak Riverwood Campus as depicted on this plan. It is south of residential, essentially
multi-family residential property, R2-15 zoning, across the street from Industrial zoning
on this particular site. The property is currently owned by an entity and family which
has owned it for quite some time. The property is under contract to, the overall
property is under contract to a developer who intends to work with the existing Kodak
building and to try to enhance that building, but as a part of his ability to go and do
3

TB January 7, 2015
that, he needed to, he was looking to find someone to acquire the area north of the
wetlands to do a development and as it turned out, the Mehalls and Richland
Development came upon this site and looking at it for student housing. As a logical
connection we have a look at the overall west side of the road and we have residential
student housing and then the base industrial of the site. So in terms of land use, be a
fifty-six (56) acre parcel, this is an appropriate land use for this area. The Town Board,
in their consideration of a Special Permit, has to take a look at measuring standards
which are set forth in the Town Code. We did provide that information in a letter of
intent, which was submitted with our application, I believe was reviewed by many in
the public. The standards are pretty straight forward, the effect of the proposed use on
the orderly development and character of the neighborhood is the first (1st) standard
and given that this is a single use with access onto East River Road and is essentially in
concert with the use of the property to the north for residential for student housing at
Racquet as well as the Boathouse, and Rivers Run of course hadn’t been developed as a
community, and I was involved in the zoning dealing with Rivers Run, was meant to be
attached to Osher and at the same time integrate in with RIT. We believe that this is
an appropriate location for the use. The second (2nd) standard is where the proposed
use will be in harmony with the existing and probable future development of the
neighborhood and in fact this does provide a better choice, we believe, than what could
have been on the site, which is Industrial, and we’ll talk about that in a few minutes as
well. The third (3rd) standard deals with the number and proximity of the same or
similar uses in the neighborhood of the premises and we have engaged a market study
and have provided that to the Town to indicate that there is a market for these
residential units. Next, standard’s whether the proposed use would be a nuisance in
law or fact and everything is being done so that in fact it is not the case from things like
poisonous substances, odors, fumes, noise radiation and the like. The next standard is
whether the proposed use will create hazards or dangers to the public from fire,
explosion, electricity, traffic congestion, crowds, parking of automobiles or other
causes. A traffic study has been engaged and is in the standard methodology and
found to be in standard in terms of the utilization of East River Road, and the last
condition deals with conditions and restrictions of the Town Board may be interested in
providing, that they can in fact condition the conditional Special Use permit if they so
desire. We will talk a little bit about the site plan because the site plan did change over
the course of time. Our initial site plan that we had, essentially utilizes the property in
accordance with the zoning buffers, and in particular the buffer along the northern side
of the project along Fairwood Drive. At the neighborhood meeting it was suggested to
us that we do, that we take whatever efforts we could to in fact increase that buffer
and to maintain trees along that northerly buffer and the net result of that is that
instead of being at a fifty foot (50’) setback from the property line, we’re now at
approximately one hundred and thirty feet (130’), I believe, one hundred and twenty
feet (120’) from the property line. As we take a look at site lines, and we did provide a
site line analysis to the Town and many are familiar with that, we have shared that with
4

TB January 7, 2015
members of the public as well, we are quite a distance away from any of the buildings
which are on the site. I believe the closest that we are from any building to building on
our site is one hundred and ninety feet (190’). The next bank was about two hundred
and thirty feet (230’) further to the west and if you go to the easterly side of Rivers
Run, the closest building is three hundred and ten feet (310’) away. In addition there is
landscaping, which will be proposed and which will be the product of any discussion
with the Planning Board if the Special Use Permit is approved. The use itself is one
from a density and design point of view, which is rather unique. We are dropping, as a
result of the movement of the northerly buffer, from seven hundred and eighty (780)
beds to approximately seven hundred (700) beds on the overall site. The cottage
design was designed essentially to create a single family feel and a comfortable feel for
the overall site, and we have a large amount of green space as a result of this
development. Doug has a chart that he’s going to put up now that contrasts what the
impacts would be of an Industrial site, which is clearly permitted without a Special
Permit, under this, under the Code as opposed to the residential component that we are
talking about. You talk about green space, green space is proposed to be about thirtyeight and a half (38.5) acres as opposed to thirty-three (33) acres, there are increased
traffic volumes which would be generated from a conventional industrial plan, both
during the A.M. and the P.M. peak hours, so to that extent, the impact and effects of
this development will be substantially less than that which will be expected from
industrial property. In our discussions with, at Workshops and with the neighbors,
we’ve talked about the developer themselves. The developer is an experienced
developer in dealing with student housing. There were questions raised relative to
management of the property, which were fully discussed. There will be a member staff
who is on call twenty-four seven (24/7) to handle lock outs and other non-emergencies,
private security on the weekend nights between nine (9:00) P.M. and three (3:00) A.M.,
exterior amenities are closed at ten o’clock (10:00 P.M.), security cameras throughout
the site, there are stringent lease requirements dealing with noise and operation of any
business or anything of that sort, which may be deemed to be offensive to residents in
the nearby area. As it relates to the Special Permit and the Special Permit standards,
we have talked about this, what we are here for tonight. The one thing that we ought
to focus on for just a minute is the fact that, as a part of any land use application, there
is a requirement to consider the State Environmental Quality Review Act and SEQRA is
a big part of what we do, so as a part of this overall application there is a substantial
report, which was submitted by BME to the Town, it has been reviewed by some in the
public domain as well, which addresses all the salient environmental issues. In terms of
the handling of environmental issues for a project like this, it requires what’s referred to
as a coordinated review among all agencies that have approval authority. The Town
Board at their Meeting last month indicated their intent to act as the lead agency, which
means that the Town Board will be conducting the environmental review, but as of this
time, we’re still within the thirty (30) day period at which any other agency can stake
their claim, if they will, to try to take control of that environmental process. We don’t
5

TB January 7, 2015
anticipate that to be the case, but at the same time the Town Board is not authorized to
act on this application tonight so for those in the public, I think there can be a clear
understanding that once we are done with the Hearing and everything else, the Board
is not in a position to act on this application this evening, and clearly has to make an
environmental determination significance as a part of their decision making prior to
making a final decision on the application itself. I know it’s a rough evening tonight on
the roads and we do appreciate the fact that people did come out this evening to listen
to this presentation and perhaps offer comments to the Town Board. What we’d like to
do at this point is to pause and take any questions that the Town Board may have, at
the same time what we will do is during the Public Hearing section of this, take notes of
those comments which are received and those that we can officially answer this
evening we will try to do that, other than that we will be prepared to answer in writing
and provide those to the Town for their review within this window prior to their
determination on the application. So with that, unless Doug has anything to add at this
point, I will close our presentation.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thank you Mr. Goldman. Does the Board have some questions?
COUNCILMAN BREESE
Well, yes actually I have one (1), Mr. Goldman. As I look at the application process and
all the corresponding paperwork that’s come through, it refers to this as student
housing…
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
That’s correct.
COUNCILMAN BREESE
…is there a limitation that says that this can only be leased to students?
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
We are in fact only leasing to students. We cannot direct which school they’re from,
and that’s a restriction that we can’t really do, but we are leasing to students and we
have the ability through our leases to control that.
COUNCILMAN BREESE
Right, but is there something that says you can only lease to students?
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
We’re willing to agree to that if that is an appropriate condition and that is something
which the Town Code allows us to do.

6

TB January 7, 2015
COUNCILMAN BREESE
Alright. Thank you.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Well, I would tell you, Jerry, that I think that a lot of the residents have a concern for
the fact that if this student housing project didn’t succeed that it would become
something other than student housing, so I think the Town Board, if they were to grant
a Special Permit, would be looking for that type of obligation.
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
And frankly we’re prepared to deal with that. Our market study does indicate that
certainly there is demand, we believe that the style of units that we’re talking about and
the management style of these particular individuals are going to lead to these be
popular as far as rental, so to that extent we’re comfortable with that.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Did your market study take into consideration that north of this proposed project there
also is a farm that was rezoned industrial for another student housing project that didn’t
come about and doesn’t appear that it’s going to, but if that were to be built too, is
there going to be need for both of them?
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
Well, there is to our mind, and we believe that we clearly are a market leader relative to
this particular style. If that other student housing project were to reinvent itself at this
point, I believe it would have to come back to the Town Board for renewal of that
Special Permit and to that extent there could be further analysis by the Town at that
time.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Yes, I would attest to the fact that if that project does come back about, it’s my
understanding that they would have to come back to the Town Board for another
Special Permit, it isn’t that they can take that Special Permit and go with the property
itself and move forward.
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
We have time constraints under our code relative to building and the fact of the matter
is that while land use approvals do run with the land, the practicality of it right now is
that they probably could not get to the point where they could effectuate that approval
and stay within the Town’s parameters of the duration of the Special Permit that was
granted. Special Permits generally are good for a year. It would take a lot longer to
reinvigorate that process and to get everything moving.

7

TB January 7, 2015
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Okay, because I know that’s a concern with a lot of residents. Thank you.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
Through you, Mr. Supervisor, the traffic study, Mr. Goldman, was done by Ferrante,
Steve Ferrante?
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
I do not…
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
SRF?

(From audience, Doug Eldred, P.E., BME Associates, “No, it is not.”)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Done by Canandaigua firm?

(From audience, Doug Eldred, P.E., BME Associates, “It’s done by…”)
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
It’s done by McFarland Johnson.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
I’m showing SRF Associates…
DOUG ELDRED, P.E., BME ASSOCIATES
No, sir.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
…in your packet here. Passero subbed that out to them?

(From audience, Doug Eldred, P.E., BME Associates, “No.”)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
It says BME.

(From audience, Doug Eldred, P.E., BME Associates, inaudible)
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
So it’s just…

8

TB January 7, 2015

(From audience, Doug Eldred, P.E., BME Associates, “I think they may have…”)
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
…it’s a mistake?

(From audience, Doug Eldred, P.E., BME Associates, “…they may have included some
information…”)
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
From him?

(From audience, Doug Eldred, P.E., BME Associates, “…from other studies, but they did
the analysis.”)
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
Okay.
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
Right, I mean, in typical fashion, the development group on the other project that the
Supervisor made reference to, the project engineer was Passero Associates. I believe
their traffic consultant was SRF, and typically what is done is that if there’s base line
information that is available it very often is utilized by a successor engineering firm in
doing their traffic analysis. Is that…

(From audience, Doug Eldred, P.E., BME Associates, “That’s correct.”)
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
…pretty much where we are?
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
With seven hundred (700) beds, Mr. Goldman, what number did you put into the
system in terms of number of cars per day?
DOUG ELDRED, P.E., BME ASSOCIATES
There’s, this is an adjusted number because we reduced it by ten percent (10%), so we
have one hundred and forty-four (144) A.M. trips and one hundred and seventy-one
(171) P.M. trips; that’s two (2) directional trips, and then, pardon me?
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
Seven hundred (700) beds, you think you’ll only have one hundred (100)…

9

TB January 7, 2015
DOUG ELDRED, P.E., BME ASSOCIATES
Yes sir.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
…trips?

(Laughter)
DOUG ELDRED, P.E., BME ASSOCIATES
No, this is, I’m sorry, let me put it this way. During the peak hours. There’s much
more than that throughout the day; there’s much more during the day. Yes.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
And you’re…
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
Standard traffic analysis, Councilman Mulligan, as you know, having gone through this
quite a bit, is the analysis is done for peak hour trips. It is not done as a constant flow
throughout the day. The analysis focuses on a peak hour in the A.M. and in the P.M.
The A.M. peak typically is one which is the seven to eight (7:00 – 8:00) hour or
somewhere in the seven to nine (7:00 – 9:00) hour. The P.M. peak is normally
between the four to six (4:00 – 6:00) hour. What you find with regard to student
housing, is that a lot of the vehicular trips are going to be during off peak hours.
Student traffic does flow at a rate during the course of the day, so for that reason it
would be slightly different. One, and let me just, also point out, and it was in our
materials and discussed at our Workshop and discussed with the neighbors, there will
be a shuttle bus, which is going to run from the site and is going to probably take
many, if not most of the students that are there, to campus and back. We do not
anticipate that there is going to be a whole lot of student vehicular trips, they’re going
to go back and forth to campus from this location.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
With seven hundred (700) beds, how many parking spots have you provided?
DOUG ELDRED, P.E., BME ASSOCIATES
Seven hundred and fifty (750).
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
So that doesn’t sound like too many are taking a shuttle.
DOUG ELDRED, P.E., BME ASSOCIATES
Well, we’ve found, we did the Park Point RIT project as well, and we actually find that
10

TB January 7, 2015
about sixty to seventy percent (60% - 70%) of the students have cars at that project.
McFarland & Johnson who did the traffic study has also done several other student
housing projects; some with us and some with other folks. So, we’ve had a large
variety of information to draw from. With respect to the traffic study trip generation, if
you look in the study there was three or four (3-4) different potential trip generation
numbers that were looked at and McFarland & Johnson took the highest one so it’d be
more conservative. Again these are peak hour traffic, you know the hopeful day traffic
is obviously much more than what happens during the peak hours, but from a peak
hour point of view and trip generation, of the models they had to look at, they picked
the highest one.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
Just trying to…
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
I’ll give you the benefit, I’m sorry.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
…seven hundred (700) beds could turn into fourteen hundred (1,400) kids.
DOUG ELDRED, P.E., BME ASSOCIATES
No.
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
No.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
You don’t remember that?
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
No.

(Laughter)
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
No. And let me share with you, I don’t want to turn this into a humor thing either, but
the fact of the matter is, I can share with you my experience, okay; my experience
through college and law school. My experience in college, not as germane because I
commuted and basically I took public transportation from Irondequoit to the U of R, but
when I moved to Albany and went to Albany Law School, I had a car. When I went to
school I took public transportation or in the better weather, walked to campus, I only
used my car at nights and on the weekends. It was not something that I would do to
11

TB January 7, 2015
go to school, it just wasn’t what we were doing.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
Changing subjects, are you pursuing any kind of tax deferrals or tax abatements on this
project?
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
As a result of taking a look at the reduction of the number of units, we’ve been
approached by the County actually and said that they do have what’s referred to as a
“Shelter Rent Program” that we’re currently analyzing and taking a look at and see
whether it fits within the parameters of what we’re talking about.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
And approximately what percentage would that reduce your taxes?
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
I believe if at full utilization, I believe it is something like twelve percent (12%) and is
limited to the term of the mortgage, if I know the program correctly.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
So, if you did a thirty (30) year mortgage you would get twelve percent (12%) each
year over thirty (30) years.
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
That’s correct. From a Town’s perspective, in terms of the tax dollars to be generated,
I think we’re talking about something like from seven thousand dollars ($7,000.00) to
fifty six thousand dollars ($56,000.00), or something, excuse me, seventy (70) to fiftysix (56).
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
But it would be substantial with the school tax.
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
It would be relatively substantial to school tax, but of course we must remember that
this will not have any impact directly on the school district in terms of putting children
into the school district as well.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
That’s all I have.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
You made reference to a shuttle. Will that be a Richland paid for shuttle or an RIT
12

TB January 7, 2015
shuttle?
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
That will be a Richland shuttle. If there are transportation options available with RIT
then those may be explored, but at this point Richland is committed, as they have done
elsewhere, to have their own shuttle system operating.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Okay. Thank you. Anybody else? (Pause, no response.)
COUNCILMAN PAGE
Nope.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thank you. We’d like to go ahead and…
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
Thank you.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
…open it up for the public comment and I have speakers signed up. You’ll have two (2)
minutes and the first speaker is Mr. Mitchell. And you’ll have to state your name and
address for the record please.
HUGH MITCHELL, 147 HILLSIDE AVENUE
Certainly. Hugh Mitchell, for the Record, 147 Hillside Avenue, is my address. I am
speaking for the Sierra Club tonight and I do appreciate on a cold night your receiving
us. It’s been a quite impressive turn out. Basically, Sierra Club is interested in this
because we’re interested in open space and potential parks along the river for Henrietta
and the community of Monroe. We have been looking at some of the applications here
in terms of the Special Use zoning variance, which was presented to you so ably by
Jerry Goldman, and I want to reply point by point, but it might take a little bit more
than two (2) minutes. I have given a copy to you all in your mail, the Town Clerk
should be able to have given it to them on Monday. But first (1st) on point A, he had
mentioned on the topic of the effect of the development on the character of the
neighborhood and the vicinity and our position is that the basic Senior Center, which
includes, as you’ve been told, the Riparian, the River’s Run and the Osher School that
I’m a member of, is a heavily used senior area, the Osher itself has about six hundred
(600) students. The Senior Center doesn’t fit in with a student center next door. The
students and the seniors just do not mix and it is not a good use of the neighborhood
for development of this student area. As far as the industrial business office park, it’d
probably be a lot better and more marketable if that hillside were left open. The
13

TB January 7, 2015
second (2nd) point, Mr. Goldman made related to the issue required question whether
the area would be in harmony with future development of the neighborhood. Well the
BME market study is flawed. They’re claiming that there will be a possible eighteen
hundred (1,800) new students in the next two (2) years. We have contacted RIT…

(Bell Ring)
PETER MINOTTI, DEPUTY SUPERVISOR
Time, Mr. Supervisor.
HUGH MITCHELL, 147 HILLSIDE AVENUE
…and they said, RIT said they’re going to have a two hundred (200) graduate students
in the next two (2) years, no more. So the market study is based on the prior
expansion. In other words it’s looking back, but RIT’s looking forward, so the market
study, we don’t believe it, it’s very badly flawed. And…
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Please summarize.
HUGH MITCHELL, 147 HILLSIDE AVENUE
…okay, thank you. I just want to say, thank you very much for coming and my
comments are in writing and I’d be happy to respond to any of you who wish to call
me, my contacts are on here. Thank you very much.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thank you very much Mr. Mitchell. The next speaker is, and you have to excuse me if I
mispronounce your name, VanGossen?
BETH VANFOSSEN, 501 RIVERS RUN
VanFossen.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Oh, I’m sorry.
BETH VANFOSSEN, 501 RIVERS RUN
Thank you. Thank you for holding this Meeting and permitting our comments.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
I’ve got to have your name and address please.
BETH VANFOSSEN, 501 RIVERS RUN
It’s Beth, I am Beth VanFossen, a resident of 501 Rivers Run. My husband and I have
14

TB January 7, 2015
lived here in this senior community since 2007, I speak against the approval of the
request for the Special Use Permit. I have five (5) concerns, but in the interest of time
will address only my biggest concerns. One (1) is about the traffic. East River Road, at
this location, is already a very difficult section. Two (2) hills on either side of the
proposed Summit creates visual problems of getting off and on to East River Road.
Stop lights at either end at the section create streams of traffic when the lights turn
green. By the time the cars reach our section of East River Road from both directions,
they have picked up quite a bit of speed. Members of our senior community frequently
comment on the danger of turning onto East River Road. This morning my husband
saw a car; it slid off the road due to the snow. This is a frequent happening in the
winter. A few years ago there was a cross by the side of East River Road memorializing
a death from a car coming down from the southern section of East River Road that hit a
car turning right. I would also just like to point out that the traffic study that has been
done did not consider the members of Osher. There’s eight hundred (800) members
between the ages of sixty-five and eighty-five (65-85) primarily. There are forty (40)
courses per term, there are usually about, I’m sorry there’s six hundred (600)
members, did I say eight hundred (800), six hundred (600) members. Each term there
are about four to five hundred (400-500) who come. They come between nine and
three (9:00 A.M. & 3:00 P.M.), so their traffic was not mentioned in the traffic study
since they looked at rush hour only, and between nine and three (9:00 A.M. – 3:00
P.M.) is when the students, well many of the students who drive would be driving, I
just wanted to point that out so that you’re aware that your traffic study didn’t take
account of this very substantial number of cars. My second (2nd) concern has to do
with damage to the environment. Currently there are large, tall trees on forty one (41)
acres of land that the housing is proposed to go on. These have roots into the steep
hill that will need to be carved out and then recontoured in order to form terraces for
road and parking areas. According to the Environmental Assessment Form, seventyone percent (71%) of the total acreage would be disturbed in construction and thirtyone percent (31%) of the acreage will ultimately become impervious surfaces, thus not
absorbing rain and snow and thus increasing water runoff. At the bottom of the hill is a
large area of wetlands, which empty into the Genesee River. The higher volume of
water runoff incurred by nonabsorbent roofs, parking areas and roads will contribute to
the height of river water during wet and flooding times and possibly may affect the
river’s impact on flooding at Rivers Run.

(Bell ring.)
BETH VANFOSSEN, 501 RIVERS RUN
I’m pleased to read that the Town…
PETER MINOTTI, DEPUTY SUPERVISOR
Time, Mr. Supervisor.
15

TB January 7, 2015
BETH VANFOSSEN, 501 RIVERS RUN
…Board will be commissioning its own independent review of the environmental impact.
Thank you.
COUNCILMAN PAGE
Thank you.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thank you very much.
BETH VANFOSSEN, 501 RIVERS RUN
You’re welcome.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
The next speaker is Cy Kastner.
CY KASTNER, 1203 RIVERS RUN
My name is Cy Kastner and I live at 1203 Rivers Run. I appreciate the opportunity to
express my concerns in reference to the request by Richland Residential for the Special
Use Permit for the purpose of constructing student housing next to our senior living
development. In the first (1st) place it seems like an unlikely juxtaposition. If our
community is designed with a fifty-five (55) or older requirement, why would anyone
think it was a good idea to place high density, unsupervised, unaffiliated student
housing in such close proximity. Think of the noise, lights, partying, and music. We
haven’t yet completed the development of our Senior Community and I have real
concerns that the placement of Richland’s housing could impede the completion of our
own development and affect our property values. I realize that eventually some sort of
development is likely to happen south of us, but I would hope that it could be
integrated into its surrounding landscape instead of obliterating it as this proposal
seems to do. Instead of rows and rows of little box houses, why not larger buildings
with a smaller footprint that would allow for preservation of woodland and wetland and
green space. There appear to be other issues that have not been well thought out
either. For example, the issue of emergency egress to and from this development, if
the East River Road access is blocked. Would you allow the developer to create a high
density, student housing project and not make sure that fire, police and ambulance
services could always have access? I would also like an answer to the question that if
at some future point in time, be it four (4) years or forty (40), could these little boxes
be sold off as substandard homes? Consider these homes have no yards to speak of,
no garages, and are less than twenty feet (20’) apart. What would that mean for Rivers
Run and for the Town? I feel our Town Board has the power and obligation to approve
a better vision for a use of this space than what Richland has designed. For these
reasons I respectfully request that the Town Board deny Special Use Permit.
16

TB January 7, 2015
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thank you.

(Bell ring.)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
The next speaker is Kathy Hayes.

(From audience, Kathy Hayes, 402 Rivers Run, inaudible)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Take your time.
KATHY HAYES, 402 RIVERS RUN
Is this one on? So I don’t need that one. Okay, good. My name is Kathy Hayes, I live
at 402 Rivers Run. These are some of my questions and concerns. Traffic is a very big
one. The Monroe County Highway Department says that they see no problem with
increased traffic on East River Road in this location. I strongly disagree based on my
almost daily need to access it from Fairwood Drive. The completely blind hill
immediately to the north of this intersection makes turning out onto East River Road
very problematic. Questions. How will students living in the Summit get to the campus
if they don’t own cars? Would RIT allow them to walk up the hill to the student
apartments there and ride the shuttle bus? I can promise you RIT won’t come down to
these kids and take them. They won’t even come to Osher and we’re students at RIT
and they won’t come down because they don’t own the land. Will RIT have room on
campus for those who do drive to park their cars? At this time, there are no sidewalks
or bike paths between the Summit and the campus. East River Road is not safe for
walking or biking, I guarantee you it isn’t at this time. I suggest that any meaningful
traffic study should be made not at rush hour, but during the days on Monday through
Friday when the Osher Institute, now it’s as of today up to six hundred and forty (640),
I was just at a meeting, is open for classes. We have three (3) sets of classes a day.
People don’t all come for the three (3) whole days, some come for the nine thirty to
eleven (9:30 A.M. – 11:00 A.M.), and dadada all day long. My next concern is the
environment. I’m pleased that the most recent proposal allows for growth of the
natural trees that are there between the properties; I’m glad they’re going to remain on
the northern side, but I’m very concerned when I learned that they’re going to be
bulldozing down that hilly terrain with most of the land going where? In the water,
going into that river that’s down there that does flood in the spring and the health of
the Genesee River is kind, should be important. I wonder if the Army Corps of
Engineers has done a research on this situation, this environmental situation. I think
they’ve got to have their word on it. Now I have another concern. This development is
not connected to RIT for any purposes. There was a similar student housing
17

TB January 7, 2015
development where our, where Rivers Run is right now, that was torn down about
fifteen (15) years ago and there was a time when some of those students living there
were getting out of control and RIT had to set up a security surveillance system to keep
the peace. There are people still living in that area who remember those days and
there are employees of the Town and the County who do also; I have spoken to some
of them myself and I pray that such a situation is never allowed to develop again.

(Bell ring)
KATHY HAYES, 402 RIVERS RUN
You can’t have…
PETER MINOTTI, DEPUTY SUPERVISOR
Time, Mr. Supervisor.
KATHY HAYES, 402 RIVERS RUN
…unsupervised college students living in large quantities without very serious
supervision. Thank you.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thank you, Ms. Hayes. The next speaker is Fred Weinstein.
FRED WEINSTEIN, 1801 RIVERS RUN
I’m Fred Weinstein, I live at 1801 Rivers Run and I agree with everything that’s been
said so far, I think they’re all accurate; all the feelings that have been mentioned are
accurate. I would like to discuss one other thing. Student housing I feel should be
associated with the University, a specific university. The students entering a university
are evaluated before they come in as to character, as to success in high school, moral
character, many, many things. We do not know what these people who are coming in
will be like. I’m a student, I go to Osher. If I give them, if I show them my Osher
pass, I would get in housing there. I don’t belong there and I could be a miserable
person. I don’t think they’re looking at the integrity of the people moving in, they just
want to sell and I think that’s bad; bad for the people living there as well as for the
people who live nearby. So for all those reasons and the ones preceding, I agree, no.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thank you. The next speaker is Mary Jane Thomas.
MARY JANE THOMAS, 1401 RIVERS RUN
I’m Mary Jane Thomas, excuse me, I live at 1401 Rivers Run. Thank you Supervisor
Moore, Deputy Supervisor Minotti and the Town Board for having us here and allowing
us to speak. I appreciate the efforts to revise the plan, and it shows some concern,
18

TB January 7, 2015
however I have many concerns, I’ll just list a couple. The traffic situation is frightening
to even think about; it is truly appalling. Young drivers are not known for caution. I
also am concerned about the wildlife. Birds are nice to watch, we enjoy watching them
very much. Taking down the trees will decrease the nesting territory and decrease our
amount of pleasure. For instance, excuse me, a family of three (3) pileated
woodpeckers fly over this summer and there was one (1) on our suet feeder today, my
husband has a photo of it, and there’s other trees that need to be left. The ones in the
corner, the northwest corner, should not come down, that’s wet in there, how can you
possibly use it? I just feel the quality of life for Rivers Run residents would be
diminished. My other question is, if I understand the land is not yet turned over, had a
final sale to Mr. Minaldi. I’m wondering how long this group is prepared to wait for that
to happen. Why don’t you go to the other site that was already approved and the
business about it being students, the lease says, “If a student…”, it doesn’t say you
have to be a student. How is that going to be enforced? In short, I would strongly
encourage the Board to cast a negative vote on this application. Thank you.
COUNCILMAN PAGE
Thank you.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thank you, Ms. Thomas.

(Bell ring)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Mr. Julian Thomas is the next speaker.
JULIAN THOMAS, 1401 RIVERS RUN
Julian Thomas, 1401 Rivers Run, husband of Mary Jane. Thank you everyone for
respond, thank the development team for responding to the concerns that were raised
at the December fifteenth (15th) Meeting and to the Town Board for having a public
forum. My personal thought is that this is not the ideal use of the land but the
alternatives as Mr. Goldman pointed out could well be worse. Specific things that we
need to have cast in concrete, the fence must be maintained as an impenetrable
barrier; there’s a hole at the west end that must be fixed and it has to be such that
people can’t walk out and wade through the river and get around to cross the property
line. Traffic concerns have been addressed already, but they can be alleviated by three
(3) steps. One (1) is if RIT does not issue the students at this, living at this property,
commuter parking permits, which means they won’t be able to park on campus during
daytime hours. The bus schedule, the shuttle bus schedule must be such that there is
little incentive for students to drive to the campus; it must be on an adequate schedule.
And the access to East River Road needs to be moved to the south, ideally to the
19

TB January 7, 2015
intersection at Lehigh Station Road where there’s a traffic light, or else the old Kodak
Riverwood entrance road. We have specific questions for the development team. What
are the long term goals of the developer? What happens if this property is sold, if it
fails? Is there any way that either the developer or any subsequent owner could
eliminate the requirement for student status? Thank you.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thank you very much Mr. Thomas.

(Bell ring)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
The next speaker is Carol Burritt.

(From audience, Carol Burritt, 620 Shore Drive, “I’ll defer to my, there are people here
that are probably going to be more impacted than I am.”)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Okay. Thank you Carol. The next one is Susan McVay.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
That’s Barry.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Well, he’s next to the microphone.
BARRY MCVAY, 504 RIVERS RUN
It might be apparent that I’m not Susan McVay, I’m her husband, Susan has a mobility
problem and asked that I might speak first (1st) as she moves up towards the front.
Thank you first off for giving us, number one (1), for having this as a Public Hearing
before you make a decision, I do understand that, if I understand correctly that this
decision could have been made before we would have a chance to speak, and it’s much
appreciated that you’re having this Hearing prior to that. I also would like to thank the
Board and the community for demonstrating such appreciation for nature. I have been
very impressed; especially, my wife and I very much enjoy doing what we call ride runs.
With my wife’s mobility problems I chase after her on the north shore of the Lehigh
Valley Trail, it’s just a bit of paradise for us. On our vacations we enjoy going to
accessible trails and it’s just a gem to have found that. I could go on, but in the
interest of the purpose of this Meeting, while most of the points have been made
already by the other speakers from our community, I would like to share some other
thoughts. I’ll try to just hit the high points. We have lived, as others, for some time
since Rivers Run began, we’ve been here for eight (8) years. It was interesting to hear
20

TB January 7, 2015
that the new housing being proposed is said to be in a cottage style. I’m glad to hear
that, that’s what our housing was proposed to be as well; an Adirondack cottage style.
I’m really relieved to hear that the natural, native trees, well many of them, are
proposed to be saved with the revision in the new proposal as I’m understanding it. I
don’t always quote Ronald Reagan, but I do feel that his quote of, “Trust but verify,” is
very important here. I wonder if it is, how it would, you would go about making sure
that after the owner, the proposed new owners would take possession, that those trees
would remain preserved. Some of the other things that have been mentioned in the
revisions too, and has come up several times, that should this project fail, would it, is
there any guarantee that it wouldn’t be turned in to, what very likely could become
substandard family housing, thereby endangering many school children that, is my
understanding, would need to be picked up off of East River Road with all of the
concerns that have been mentioned about the safety issues on that street. I think also,
that the issue of transportation, like in terms of a shuttle bus, I know we have a small
shuttle bus where we are, it’s difficult to imagine with seven hundred (700) college
students, how many students can fit on this shuttle bus and be able to reasonably
transported to the college, being four (4) minutes or four (4) miles away from RIT, and
being a cyclist myself, I am concerned about the safety, again, that’s a major issue to
me with these college students, of sidewalks for the college students for those of them
that would choose, as I believe the attorney had mentioned, that he preferred to walk
to the university, as did I when I went to school, but…

(Bell ring)
BARRY MCVAY, 504 RIVERS RUN
…would that be safe for…
PETER MINOTTI, DEPUTY SUPERVISOR
Time, Mr. Supervisor.
BARRY MCVAY, 504 RIVERS RUN
…thank you very much, I appreciate the opportunity to speak and if anyone would care
to contact me, I’m glad to leave any additional contact information as well. Thank you
very much.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thank you Mr. McVay.
SUSAN MCVAY, 504 RIVERS RUN
Hi, I’m Susan McVay, 504 Rivers Run. My comments are briefer than my husband, so I
should have given him a few minutes of my time. As a home owner in the Rivers Run
community of Henrietta, I oppose the construction of over one hundred and sixty-five
21

TB January 7, 2015
(165) residences next door to my neighborhood. While I appreciate that the
developer’s Site Engineer, Mr. Eldred, recently proposed reducing the number of
structures from one-eighty-five (185) to one-sixty-seven (167), housing seven hundred
(700) college students in this small space results in a very high population density.
Such a densely populated project is likely to significantly change the character of this
area into a more urban environment with associated problems in pollution, traffic,
safety and security. In addition I’m very concerned as has been stated by others, that
this proposed student housing is unaffiliated with any college. Therefore, they don’t
have the assets of a particular institution of higher learning behind them, such as the
provision of security, safety, money, if they run into situations that require assets to
solve, so because they are unaffiliated with a university, I think that will, could cause
serious problems and I request the Board to reject this proposal. Thank you.
COUNCILMAN BREESE
You’re welcome.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thank you, Mrs. McVay. The next one is Meredith Smith.
MEREDITH SMITH, RIT ASSOCIATE VP FOR GOVERNMENT & COMMUNITY RELATIONS
Thank you, Members of the Town Board for holding this Hearing this evening. My
name is Meredith Smith and I am Associate Vice President for Government and
Community Relations at RIT, and I have just a few brief comments on the project. We
at RIT believe it’s important to make clear and on the Record that RIT is not affiliated
with the project; I’m glad to hear so many of our community members already
recognize that this evening. We have consistently stated to the Town Board, as well as
to community members, that we do not feel that additional off-campus student housing
for RIT students is warranted at this time. RIT does not anticipate future enrollments
to justify the number of new beds that Richland proposes. We continue to have diverse
housing offerings on the RIT campus at all price points that we think will meet the
needs of our campus population for the foreseeable future. Thank you.

(Applause)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thank you, Meredith. The next speaker is Natalie Weinstein.
NATALIE WEINSTEIN, 1801 RIVERS RUN
Good evening and thank you for letting me speak and coming out in this wonderful
weather. I just have one (1) comment…

22

TB January 7, 2015
SUPERVISOR MOORE
I need your address though. Name and address.
NATALIE WEINSTEIN, 1801 RIVERS RUN
…oh the name. Natalie Weinstein, 1801 Rivers Run.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thank you.
NATALIE WEINSTEIN, 1801 RIVERS RUN
My question deals with access and egress problems. Now I know that the original
intent was to have a emergency exit into Fairwood Drive, that I know has been
changed and thank you to the developers, however I haven’t seen anything on any of
the plans that shows a second (2nd) access and egress from this property. Very
important because as you all know, it’s very important to be able to get emergency
vehicles in and out of a community if there was an emergency, so this is the one (1)
thing that I had to say, and I agree with everything else that has been said before. I’m
very much against this. Thank you.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thank you very much. Next speaker is Carol Malach.
CAROL MALACH, 130 CAPE HENRY TRAIL
Carol Malach, 130 Cape Henry Trail. I just have a question or concern also about traffic
but it’s a little bit more comprehensive and broad than just this development. Has the
Town addressed or looked at the ongoing development that’s going on, on East River
Road. You approved Jayne’s Riverview; that’s going to be hundreds and hundreds of
cars, there’s ongoing development at Riverton and now this seven hundred plus (700+)
cars, and I’d like to understand comprehensively what the Town is doing to look at that
and address it. It’s a major concern for any of us who live along East River Road, not
just from the hours of eight to nine in the morning (8:00 A.M. – 9:00 A.M.) and you
know five to six at night (5:00 P.M. – 6:00 P.M.). The other comment I have is about
student housing. That question came up at the Informational Meeting for neighbors,
and the Richland group told us they had no way of verifying whether someone is a
student. I could show a fake ID and I can lease there. They have no way of contacting
any of the schools to verify that I’m really a student. Thank you.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thanks Carol. The next speaker is Mike Stafford.
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
Mike Stafford, 32 Essex Drive. I just wanted, one thing I want to reiterate with
23

TB January 7, 2015
everybody is the traffic. I used to work right there seven to three (7:00 A.M. – 3:00
P.M.) right off of East River Road, traffic was horrendous at that time and that was a
couple years back. I still go out there quite often to the same company and the traffic’s
bad. And I know they mentioned a shuttle bus; is that guaranteed in any way and
what hours would it run for, would they guarantee that that shuttle bus would run
every hour on the hour for ten (10) years or twenty (20) years? The other thing is I,
when they talk about the woods and everything, we can point to a project that was
over on Jefferson Road, I believe it was the Saint John’s project, where the developer
went in, ripped out a bunch of trees, the neighbors were up in arms because they
destroyed their back yards and then the developer just, for other business reasons,
decided not to build it and just left it. Now it’s an empty lot sitting there, where you
drive down Jefferson Road just, what is it, just east of Winton and you can see it on
your, you can see it anytime, so people can take a look at that. The other thing that I
always ask, or always interested in finding out is the developer; if he gets a Special
Permit to build this project, does he bring in a bunch of out-of-towners to build it or
does he use local labor with our people, with our community people working on it? I
know there was some issues several years ago with one of the RIT projects; I’m not
sure if it was affiliated with RIT, where they actually had…
SUPERVISOR MOORE
It wasn’t, it was the Province.
MIKE STAFFORD, 32 ESSEX DRIVE
…where they actually had illegal workers there and they came in and arrested them, so
I’d like to know what guarantees would they offer that it would be done by, done by
local labor? And just a third (3rd) thing, on the buffer, the development that was
behind my house had a buffer there for twenty (20) years and it was beautiful up until
about nine (9) months ago, anybody that wants to look and see what can happen to
your buffer too. Thank you.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
You’re welcome. Thanks Mike. The next speaker is Sally Howard.
SALLY HOWARD, 24 KRAMER STREET
Good evening.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
I need your name and address, Sally.
SALLY HOWARD, 24 KRAMER STREET
Sally Howard, 24 Kramer Street, I live on the other side of Henrietta, but I’m often on
East River Road, and this is, I’d like to, seeing as this is a very important decision to
24

TB January 7, 2015
consider and the following comments are from me as a resident, but I’d like to have
myself listed as an interested party to be kept informed of the progress of the project
and also the Federation of Monroe County Environmentalists. Because this parcel of
land contains a deep valley and a hill of sandy, erodible soils, wetland, meadows,
mature forest, stream and abundant wildlife and because this parcel of land is adjacent
to the navigable waters of the Genesee River, and because the Genesee River currently
does not meet state water quality standards and is part of the federally designated area
of concern, which is the Rochester Embayment of Lake Ontario, and because the
proposed housing development could negatively impact that area of Henrietta and the
Genesee River, if it hasn’t already been done, I request a full State Environmental
Quality Review (SEQRA) and with a positive declaration of negative impact and with all
relevant municipalities and agencies and impacted parties informed. In the letter I
have a list of possible impacts to consider and agencies and municipalities. Because
this parcel of land is a large and beautiful open space bordering the navigable waters of
the Genesee River and because this parcel of land is already a park-like setting with
walking trails and landscaping already developed and because in the 2001
Comprehensive Plan update of Henrietta, agriculture and open space was the number
one (1) priority by the Henrietta residents surveyed, and because of the Henrietta
Comprehensive Plan, environmental goals include this, and because Henrietta has no
public canoe launcher or fishing to access despite having boarders on both the Erie
Canal and the Genesee River, and because there are funding opportunities to protect
open space, and because Henrietta has only one (1) small park on either waterfront,
and because it would preserve open space and create multiple recreation opportunities
and preserve wildlife habitat and protect shore line and water quality, and these are all
compatible with local and New York State goals, I request that this parcel of land be
considered for purchase as a public park with amenities such as walking trails,
picnicking, wildlife viewing, a small parking lot, public canoe launch, educational
signage and perhaps a shelter that can be reserved for family and group events. This is
a rare opportunity to have a park-like property on waterfront in Henrietta that could be
conserved as a public park for us and future generations. It is our responsibility to
carefully consider this opportunity before it is too late. Thank you.

(Applause)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thank you Sally. The last speaker that signed up is Dower Krin.

(From audience, Dower Chin, 126 Cape Henry Trail, “Chin. I’m all set sir, thank you.”)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Are you? Okay. This concludes the public part of our Hearing. Is there anybody else
that didn’t sign up that wants to speak? Seeing none, can I have a motion to close the
25

TB January 7, 2015
Hearing?
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
I have one final question for Mr. Goldman.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Sure, go right ahead.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
On the roads, Mr. Goldman…
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
Yes.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
…would they remain private or would they be dedicated over to the Town?
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
They are proposed to be private roads, there’s no intention to dedicate.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
Water and sewer private or County Water Authority?

(From audience, Jerry Goldman, Woods Oviatt & Gilman, “I’ll leave that to Mr. Eldred.”)
DOUG ELDRED, P.E., BME ASSOCIATES
The water main source for the (inaudible) water facilities would all be private. There’s
a trunk sewer, so to speak that goes from the river over to East River Road. That
section would be dedicated such that other people can tie into it…
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
Thank you.
DOUG ELDRED, P.E., BME ASSOCIATES
…of the community.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
Thank you.
DOUG ELDRED, P.E., BME ASSOCIATES
It was a planned sewer group.

26

TB January 7, 2015
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
Okay.
DOUG ELDRED, P.E., BME ASSOCIATES
Other than that the sanitary sewer is private as well.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thank you. Is there some type of forum for some of the questions that have been
asked tonight, that we could be able to answer them somehow, Jerry could you address
that? Because there’s a lot of good questions that have been asked…
JERRY GOLDMAN, WOODS OVIATT & GILMAN
There were…
SUPERVISOR MOORE
…and I, we’ve got to come up with.

(From audience, Jerry Goldman, Woods Oviatt & Gilman, “…there were a lot of good
questions, you’re right, there were a lot of good questions and there were, while we
were taking copious notes, there were also a lot of written statements which came out.
Our intention is to, hopefully within the next week, provide a written response to all
those for the benefit of the Board, obviously the Town is very good about making a lot
of that information available to people. I know that there were point people within the
Rivers Run neighborhood who also circulate that among their folks as well, so that
hopefully will provide the responses.)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
So what type of timetable so I can hold you to it?

(Laughter)
(From audience, Jerry Goldman, Woods Oviatt & Gilman, “Well, we can say by the end
of next week.”)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Okay. That would be good, I’d appreciate that. Thank you.

(From audience, Jerry Goldman, Woods Oviatt & Gilman, “Thank you.”)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
And I thank everybody for coming out on this cold night and being so attentive. Carol?

(From audience, Carol Burritt, 620 Shore Drive, “Will the responses be put on the Town
27

TB January 7, 2015

website?”)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Yes, we’d be glad to. That shouldn’t be a problem. Could I have a motion to close this
Public Hearing?
COUNCILMAN BREESE
I’ll move to close the Public Hearing.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
Second.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Please call the roll.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Absent
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

SUPERVISOR MOORE
We’ll take a little recess for everybody that would like to go home and keep warm, and
we have a short business Meeting after this. Thank you.
(Brief intermission at 8:05 P.M.)
(Meeting re-opened at 8:14 P.M.)
SUPERVISOR MOORE
We’d like to go ahead and start our business Meeting if we could please.

(Bell ring.)
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
Bell man’s out of control.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Thank you. Could I have the first (1st) Resolution please?

28

TB January 7, 2015
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
I’m going to defer to Councilman Breese to read the finance Resolution because he’s
the guy who reviewed the bills.
COUNCILMAN PAGE
Very good.
COUNCILMAN BREESE
There we go.
RESOLUTION #2-47/2015
On Motion of
Councilman Breese

Seconded by
Councilman Page

BE IT RESOLVED, that the Director of Finance be authorized to pay the following
bills payable:
Exhibit A

Bills Payable dated 01/07/2015

$233,639.88

Exhibit B

Manual Bills Payable dated 12/31/2014

$ 26,000.00

SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion? Please call the roll.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Absent
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

RESOLUTION #2-48/2015
On Motion of
Councilman Page

Seconded by
Councilman Breese

WHEREAS, Charles W. Alderson, 632 John Street, being identified as Tax
Identification No. 161.03-1-5, wishes to connect to an existing sanitary sewer, and
WHEREAS, the Town of Henrietta has offered to enter into an Out of District
Sanitary Sewer Contract with Charles W. Alderson, and
29

TB January 7, 2015
WHEREAS, the Town Attorney has examined this Agreement and has found it to
be in good order.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Supervisor be hereby authorized to
execute and deliver said Agreement by and between the Town of Henrietta and Charles
W. Alderson.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion? Please call the roll.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Absent
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

RESOLUTION #2-49/2015
On Motion of
Councilman Breese

Seconded by
Councilman Mulligan

WHEREAS, the Fire Marshal/Building Inspector has requested authorization to
attend the New York State Building Officials Conference, Central Chapter, Inc., to be
held at the Holiday Inn, located at Electronics Parkway, Liverpool, New York, on March
31, 2015 and concluding April 3, 2015, and
WHEREAS, funds are available in the year 2015 Budget, and
WHEREAS, the Town Board supports and encourages additional training for all
Town employees.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that Terry Ekwell, Fire Marshal/Building
Inspector, be hereby authorized to attend the conference at Liverpool, New York, at a
cost not to exceed $975.00.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that all properly prepared vouchers be submitted to
the Director of Finance for reimbursement.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion? Please call the roll.

30

TB January 7, 2015
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Absent
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

RESOLUTION #2-50/2015
On Motion of
Councilman Mulligan

Seconded by
Councilman Page

WHEREAS, Resolution #22-265/2006 authorized the Supervisor to sign the All
Seasons County/Town Agreement for the provision of Town labor and equipment to
perform various work for Monroe County for an initial period commencing on January 1,
2007 and ending on December 31, 2007 with the option of nine (9) one-year
extensions, and
WHEREAS, the County of Monroe has submitted an Amendatory Agreement for
2015 containing updated labor reimbursement rates, and
WHEREAS, the Town of Henrietta desires to continue this Work Agreement with
the County for the benefit of Henrietta residents.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Supervisor be hereby authorized to sign,
on behalf of the Town, this Amendatory Agreement with Monroe County allowing the
Town to continue to perform various work for Monroe County for the period
commencing on January 1, 2015 and ending on December 31, 2015.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion? Please call the roll.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Absent
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

31

TB January 7, 2015
RESOLUTION #2-51/2015
On Motion of
Councilman Page

Seconded by
Councilman Breese

WHEREAS, the Henrietta Public Library has requested that the following item be
declared surplus material:
Inventory #
01046

Description
Lateral 3 Drawer File (1978)

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the item listed above be declared surplus
material and be sent to the Parks and Facilities Department for disposal.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that said item be removed from the Town’s
inventory list.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion? Please call the roll.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Absent
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

RESOLUTION #2-52/2015
On Motion of
Councilman Breese

Seconded by
Councilman Mulligan

BE IT RESOLVED, that the Town of Henrietta, Location Code 30209 hereby
establishes the following as standard work days for its employees and will report days
worked to the New York State and Local Employee’s Retirement System based on the
time keeping system or the record of activities maintained and submitted by these
members to the Clerk of this body:
Elected Officials
Town Board Members

6 hours

Appointed Officials
Deputy Supervisor

7 hours
32

TB January 7, 2015
Appointed Boards
Zoning Board Members
Planning Board Members
Conservation Board Members

6 hours
6 hours
6 hours

SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion? Please call the roll.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Absent
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

RESOLUTION #2-53/2015
On Motion of
Councilman Mulligan

Seconded by
Councilman Page

BE IT RESOLVED, that the Town Board of the Town of Henrietta appoint
Supervisor Jack W. Moore as Delegate and William J. Mulligan, Jr., as Alternate
Delegate to cast the vote of the Town of Henrietta, pursuant to §6 of Article III of the
Constitution and By-Laws of the Association of Towns of the State of New York at the
2015 Annual Meeting to be held in New York City from February 15, 2015 through
February 18, 2015.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion? Please call the roll.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Absent
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

33

TB January 7, 2015
RESOLUTION #2-54/2015
On Motion of
Councilman Page

Seconded by
Councilman Breese

WHEREAS, the Town of Henrietta formerly purchased the property located at
3850 East Henrietta Road, Henrietta, New York, Lookup Park, previously known as the
Executive South Family Golf and Recreation Center, and
WHEREAS, the Town of Henrietta desires to establish an Operating Agreement
with the Henrietta Foundation, Inc. that will allow the Foundation to continue to use a
portion of the premises and facility to further support their programs and to continue
the availability of the Center to the public, and
WHEREAS, both the Town of Henrietta and the Henrietta Foundation have
proposed an Operating Agreement which will accomplish the aforesaid goals while
allowing the Town to continue to consider possible future uses for the property.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the Supervisor is hereby authorized to
execute the proposed Operating Agreement between the Town of Henrietta and
Henrietta Foundation, Inc., and that said Agreement is available for inspection in the
office of the Town Clerk.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion?
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
Just under discussion, I think you mentioned this the other night, Councilman Page, we
do have insurance from them?
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Yes, we will. It’s the same type of insurance we have for Riverton Golf Course, they
have to provide us, as an additional insured certificate.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
Thank you.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Please call the roll.

34

TB January 7, 2015
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Absent
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

RESOLUTION #2-55/2015
On Motion of
Councilman Breese

Seconded by
Councilman Mulligan

WHEREAS, on October 1, 2014 a Public Hearing was held regarding Local Law
No. 3 of 2014, a local law establishing a rental registry, but no decision was made and
the Hearing remains open for consideration, and
WHEREAS, on December 17, 2014, Resolution #23-281/2014 adopted Local Law
No. 4 of 2014, a local law amending the Town Code to allow New York State Town Law
§278 Cluster Subdivisions to be permitted in RR Districts.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that because the original Local Law No. 4 of
2014 (dealing with Cluster Subdivisions) was the third Local Law to be enacted in 2014,
said Local Law shall now be designated Local Law No. 3 of 2014.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Town Clerk shall file with the Secretary of
State, as soon as possible, one (1) Certified copy of the Cluster Subdivision Local Law,
hereafter to be referred to as Local Law No. 3 of 2014, and that said Law shall take
effect immediately upon filing with the Secretary of State.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion? Please call the roll.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Absent
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
Mr. Supervisor I have Resolution number, this should be number two (2), right?

35

TB January 7, 2015
COUNCILMAN PAGE
Yep.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Yep.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
We’ve got a one (1) here.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
I see that.
RESOLUTION #2-56/2015
On Motion of
Councilman Mulligan

Seconded by
Councilman Page

WHEREAS, it is customary each year for the Henrietta Town Board to set fees for
the operation of recreation programs, and
WHEREAS, the Town Board has reviewed the following recommendations for the
Henrietta Recreation Department Afterschool Program and they appear to be in order:

Registered for: Resident Fee Non‐resident Fee 
5 days 
$210
$230
4 days 
$180
$200
3 days 
$135
$150
2 days 
$90
$100
1 day 
$45
$50
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the aforementioned fees will be adopted for the
2015-2016 calendar school year.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
…and if you want lower fees, I would suggest you move to Henrietta.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion?
COUNCILMAN PAGE
May I assume those fees are per month?

36

TB January 7, 2015
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Yes. Am I correct Jason?

(From audience, Jason Kulik, Director of Parks and Recreation, “I believe they’re a
year.”)
COUNCILMAN PAGE
A year.

(From audience, Jason Kulik, Director of Parks and Recreation, “Oh I’m sorry.”)
COUNCILMAN PAGE
That’s, no I believe you’re right. It’s a school year, correct.

(From audience, Jason Kulik, Director of Parks and Recreation, “Yes.”)
COUNCILMAN PAGE
I believe that’s correct.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Yes, it’s a relatively low fee.
COUNCILMAN PAGE
It’s like twenty-one dollars ($21.00) a month; I just wanted to point that out to
everybody.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
Dirt cheap.
JASON KULIK, DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATIONS
Four (4) quarterly payments.
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
Four (4) quarterly payments.
COUNCILMAN PAGE
Oh, four (4) quarterly payments. Somehow I think that needs to be included in this
Resolution.
JASON KULIK, DIRECTOR OF PARKS AND RECREATION
Okay.

37

TB January 7, 2015
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Could we go and amend the Resolution to put the term in for whatever the fees are?
COUNCILMAN PAGE
Yes, I’m going to make that motion right now.
Resolution.

I make a motion to amend this

RESOLUTION #2-56/2015
On Motion of
Councilman Page

Seconded by
Councilman Mulligan

WHEREAS, it is customary each year for the Henrietta Town Board to set fees for
the operation of recreation programs, and
WHEREAS, the Town Board has reviewed the following recommendations for the
Henrietta Recreation Department Afterschool Program and they appear to be in order,
and
WHEREAS, the Afterschool Program operates over the calendar school year, with
the fees being paid in quarterly installments as follows:

Registered for:
5 days 
4 days 
3 days 
2 days 
1 day 

Quarterly
Quarterly
Resident Fee Non‐resident Fee 
$210
$230
$180
$200
$135
$150
$90
$100
$45
$50

THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, the aforementioned fees will be adopted for the
2015-2016 calendar school year.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion?
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
Just to be clear then, the five (5) days would not be two hundred and ten dollars
($210.00), it would be eight hundred and forty ($840.00)?
COUNCILMAN BREESE
That’s correct.

38

TB January 7, 2015
SUPERVISOR MOORE
That’s correct, the way I understand it, yes. And I’d like to thank Jason Kulik and Anita
Tichacek for doing a lot of work to get to this point. Please call the roll.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Absent
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

RESOLUTION #2-57/2015
On Motion of
Councilman Page

Seconded by
Councilman Breese

BE IT RESOLVED, that the following persons be hired:
Susan Eisel-Brown

Finance Department, Part Time Personnel
Analyst @ $22.00/hr. (provisional), effective
January 5, 2015.

Lisa Mount

Recreation Department, Seasonal Recreation
Attendant (Youth Basketball Instructor) @
$9.00/hr., effective December 15, 2014.

Joseph Driscoll

Highway Department, Seasonal Wingperson @
$9.25/hr., effective November 30, 2014.

Tina Wheeler

Highway Department, Seasonal Wingperson @
$9.25/hr., effective November 30, 2014.

SUPERVISOR MOORE
Discussion?
COUNCILMAN MULLIGAN
This isn’t Jack Driscoll?
SUPERVISOR MOORE
No.

39

TB January 7, 2015
COUNCILMAN PAGE
No.
SUPERVISOR MOORE
This is his cousin, Joe. Please call the roll.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Aye
voting
Absent
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

SUPERVISOR MOORE
That concludes our business portion of the Meeting, is there anybody in the audience
that would like to speak on any subject? (Pause, no response.) Seeing none, can I
have a motion for adjournment.
The Regular Meeting of the Henrietta Town Board was moved for adjournment by
Councilman Page, seconded by Councilman Breese at 8:27 P.M. and was adjourned
without objection.
Respectfully submitted,

Jennifer L. Miranda
Deputy Town Clerk

40

