TOWN BOARD WORKSHOP
AGENDA
MARCH 30, 2015
4:30 P.M.



No Special Permits
No Public Hearings

1.)

Approval of Minutes of the Preceding Town Board Workshop Meeting
March 16, 2015

2.)

Approval of Minutes at Town Board meeting(s)

3.)

Consider Authorizing Request for Special Use Permit Extension – Application No.
2013-057 – West Herr Automotive Group – Martin

4.)

Consider Awarding Low Bid – 2015 Sanitary Sewer Repairs Project – Martin

5.)

Consider Awarding Low Bid – Storm Waterway Mowing (Creek Cutting) – Martin

6.)

Consider Naming Henrietta Pavilion – Henrietta Tinker Nature Park - Kulik

7.)

Consider Authorizing Fee Schedule – Tyler Pavilion - Kulik

8.)

Info Only: Rental Registry Update – Minotti / Young

9.)

Info Only: Erie Station Raod – Tree Clearing Project - Minotti

10.) Info Only: Discuss Insurance Renewal – Minotti
11.) Info Only: Discuss February Overtime - DPW - Moore
12.) Info Only: Update on Recreation Building Progress – Moore / Young
13.) Info Only: Update on Veteran’s Memorial Park Bathroom Project – Moore
14.) Review Personnel Items – Moore
15.) Consider Bills Payable – Moore
16.) Old Business

TOWN OF HENRIETTA
TOWN BOARD WORKSHOP MEETING NOTES
MARCH 30, 2015
The regularly scheduled Workshop of the Henrietta Town Board for Monday, March 30,
2015 was called to order at 4:30 P.M.
MEMBERS PRESENT
Supervisor Jack W. Moore
Deputy Supervisor Peter C. Minotti
Councilman M. Rick Page
Councilman Kenneth Breese
Donald A. Young, Town Attorney
Rebecca Wiesner, Town Clerk and Receiver of Taxes
MEMBERS ABSENT
Councilman William J. Mulligan, Jr.
Councilwoman Janet B. Zinck



No Special Permits
No Public Hearings

1.) Approval of Minutes of the Preceding Town Board Workshop Meeting
March 16, 2015
Councilman Breese made a motion to approve the Town Board Workshop Minutes from
the March 16, 2015 Meeting and Councilman Page seconded the motion.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Absent
voting
Absent
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

2.) Approval of Minutes at Town Board meeting(s)
3.) Consider Authorizing Request for Special Use Permit Extension –
Application No. 2013-057 – West Herr Automotive Group – Martin
On September 11, 2013, the Town Board approved Special Use Permit No. 2013-057 for
West Herr Automotive Group to construct a two hundred forty (240) space overflow
parking area across the road from their current location. The Town has already granted
a six (6) month extension with a new expiration date of March 12, 2015, however the

TB Workshop March 30, 2015
applicant has requested another six (6) month extension.
Councilman Page made a motion to grant a six (6) month extension for Special Use Permit
No. 2013-057, with a new expiration date of September 12, 2015, and Councilman Breese
seconded the motion.
Duly put to a vote:
Councilman Mulligan
Councilwoman Zinck
Councilman Page
Councilman Breese
Supervisor Moore

voting
Absent
voting
Absent
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
voting
Aye
Carried

4.) Consider Awarding Low Bid – 2015 Sanitary Sewer Repairs Project –
Martin
Four (4) bids were received for the Year 2015 Sanitary Sewer Repairs Project. Chris
Martin, Director of Engineering & Planning, explained that based on the bid tabulation,
Randsco Pipeline, Inc. submitted the lowest total bid in the amount of two hundred
ninety-six thousand dollars ($296,100.00). Fineline Pipeline, Inc. has been the low
bidder on each Sanitary Sewer Repairs Projects since 2011; their bid was two hundred
ninety-six thousand, nine hundred seventy-five dollars ($296,975.00). Martin noted that
the lowest bid was approximately thirty to forty thousand dollars ($30,000.00 $40,000.00) over the Engineer’s estimate, and that the 2015 Sanitary Sewer Repairs
Project includes only spot repairs and lateral replacement; sliplining is not included in this
project. Councilman Page asked about lateral replacement on private property and
Martin responded that replacement of laterals would only include those in Town
easements or in right-of-ways.
5.) Consider Awarding Low Bid – Storm Waterway Mowing (Creek
Cutting) – Martin
Four (4) bids were received for the Storm Waterway Mowing (Creek Cutting) project.
The lowest bid was received from Ted Hosmer Enterprise, Inc. in the amount of four
hundred eighty-one dollars ($481.00) per mowing. However, on March 19, 2015, the
Town received a letter from Chris Wilt at Ted Hosmer Enterprise, Inc. withdrawing their
bid. After the withdrawal of Ted Hosmer Enterprises, Inc.’s bid, the lowest bid was
received from Extreme Lawn Care & Landscaping in the amount of four thousand one
hundred dollars ($4,100.00) per mowing. Chris Martin, Director of Engineering &
Planning, pointed out that Extreme Lawn Care & Landscaping is the same company the
Town has used for the last three (3) years.

2

TB Workshop March 30, 2015
6.) Consider Naming Henrietta Pavilion – Henrietta Tinker Nature Park Kulik
Jason Kulik, Director of Parks & Recreation, explained that Lora Abbott and Tim Pratt at
the Tinker Nature Center recommended that the Tinker Nature Park pavilion be named
after Rebecca Tyler Tinker. Kulik discussed the suggestion with Tina Thompson, Town
Historian, and she agreed that the name would be appropriate and provided a write up
regarding the historic significance.
Memo to:

Jason Kulik

From:

Tina Thompson

Re:

Tyler Pavilion at Tinker Nature Park

As we discussed on the phone yesterday, it is most appropriate that the pavilion should
be named for Rebecca Tyler, born November 12,1772, who married James Tinker on
February 7, 1799.
James and Rebecca came from Waterford (near New London), Connecticut in 1812 to
the West Woods of Pittsford,(became the town of Henrietta in 1818), a journey of
approximately 377 miles with six children between the ages of twelve and two. An ox
and ox cart carried their belongings.
Two more children were born in Henrietta, Grace Ann and Malachi Tyler. The Tyler
name has been carried down through the family. Carol Tinker Aldridge’s brother was
named Tyler.
Naming the pavilion for Rebecca Tyler recognizes the contributions that she and
women from her generation made in the settlement of this area. Rebecca left a
comfortable home, family and friends in Connecticut on a journey that was not easy.
When her family arrived here, they were pioneers who lived in log cabins and grew
their own food.
Rebecca Tyler Tinker (d. March 17, 1848) is buried at the Tinker Cemetery on Castle
Road. A daughter, Grace Ann, had a monument erected in memory of her parents.
I believe that this is the first public “structure” that is being named for a woman.
Kulik also mentioned that since Rebecca Tyler Tinker grew food for the family, the
community garden at Tinker Nature Park would provide an additional link to the suggested
name.
7.) Consider Authorizing Fee Schedule – Tyler Pavilion - Kulik
In conjunction with the naming of the Tinker Nature Park pavilion, the proposed resolution
is to set fees to reserve the Tyler Pavilion. There is a twenty-five dollar ($25.00) fee for
residents and a fifty dollar ($50.00) fee for non-residents, which is the same as the fees
established for other Town pavilions.

3

TB Workshop March 30, 2015
8.) Info Only: Rental Registry Update

– Minotti / Young

Following the Public Hearing on February 23rd, Peter Minotti, Deputy Supervisor, and
Donald Young, Town Attorney, have been focusing on rental registry enforcement and the
associated fees. Young advised the Town Board to call for a Public Hearing at the next
Town Board Meeting so that the Public Hearing could be scheduled for May 6, 2015.
Councilman Page asked about fees and Councilman Breese responded with one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00). Young confirmed that the agreed upon fee was one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) for three (3) years. Councilman Page also verified that the proposed
rental registry information would be put on to the Town website prior to the Public
Hearing.
9.) Info Only: Erie Station Road – Tree Clearing Project - Minotti
Town employees have been clearing trees from an area of land on the south side of Erie
Station Road, west of the Legacy at Erie Station senior living community. Terry Ekwell,
Fire Marshal/Building Inspector, mentioned that his office has been receiving many phone
calls from residents wondering why the property has been cleared. Supervisor Moore
responded that the Town has been clearing up a mess.
10.) Info Only: Discuss Insurance Renewal – Minotti
Peter Minotti, Deputy Supervisor, reported that Supervisor Moore has signed the
preliminary insurance renewal package with New York Municipal Insurance Reciprocal
(NYMIR); the renewal was due on April 1st. Last year the annual premium was one
hundred twenty-four thousand dollars ($124,000.00), and this year the premium has
dropped down to one hundred fourteen thousand, nine hundred eighteen dollars
($114,918.00). The deduction of approximately ten thousand dollar ($10,000.00) was
due to the Supervisor’s decision to increase the commercial property deductible to one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00). Moore pointed out that Minotti was able to
reduce the premium by approximately ten percent (10%) and still increase the commercial
package coverages by seven million dollars ($7,000,000.00). Councilman Page asked
whether Minotti was comfortable with a one hundred thousand dollar ($100,000.00)
deductible and Minotti said that he was. Moore felt that the premium was acceptable for
a Town this size.
11.) Info Only: Discuss February Overtime - DPW - Moore
Supervisor Moore reported that the Town has paid fifty-eight thousand dollars
($58,000.00) in overtime for Highway employees due to the difficult winter conditions the
area has experienced this year. Councilman Breese said that without last year’s
numbers, he doesn’t have a comparison to use in reviewing this year’s overtime pay.

4

TB Workshop March 30, 2015
12.) Info Only: Update on Recreation Building Progress – Moore / Young
Donald Young, Town Attorney, said that he and the other attorneys at Boylan Code have
had a number of meetings regarding the proposed recreation building and they have
determined that in order to hold a public referendum, the Town should hold the
referendum sixty to ninety (60 – 90) days out from any Town Board action. Councilman
Breese asked whether a referendum was required and Young responded that it is not
required, but permissive. However, residents are able to file a petition and require a
vote, so by electing to have a referendum, the Town would be able to schedule the vote.
Breese expressed concern that holding a referendum would create division within the
community and that when people elect Town Board Members, they expect the Town
Board to make these decisions. Breese also noted that at the informational meeting
about the proposed recreation building held on January 26th, all feedback was positive, so
why go through a referendum? Moore felt that holding a referendum would be respectful
to the taxpayers. Breese pointed out that the old plan for the recreation building is still on
the Town website, even though it has and continues to be revised. Supervisor Moore said
that he’s talked to developers about a building that the Town can afford; the building
proposed at the January 26th was estimated to cost six million dollars ($6,000,000.00), but
now the cost is estimated at eight million dollars ($8,000,000.00). Breese mentioned that
it is difficult backpedaling from six million dollars ($6,000,000.00) to eight million dollars
($8,000,000.00). Councilman Page suggested that the cost for the proposed recreation
building be explained as part of a long-range capital improvement plan and that based on
the initial work, the recreation building aspect of the project has come back much higher,
forcing the Town to scale the project back to one (1) story. Page expressed that he
would like the library and the recreation building to be built together with a walkway in
between, even if the Town had to borrow two to three million dollars ($2,000,000.00 $3,000,000.00) to complete the project. Moore said that due to an increase in
programming space in the second version of the plan for the proposed recreation building,
storage space was lost. The Town is still waiting for a plan from the new owners of the
Dome property to determine where the library would be located; if the Town were to
bundle the library and recreation building together, it would slow progress on the
recreation building. Jason Kulik, Director of Parks & Recreation, told the Town Board that
there would be a Parks & Recreation Advisory Board Meeting on Thursday, April 9th to
discuss the proposed recreation building. Kulik also added that the site of the proposed
recreation building is on the parade field in Veteran’s Memorial Park, which is used for
parking during the Town’s 4th of July fireworks, however the parking lot at the recreation
facility would meet that requirement in the future. Breese doesn’t want to build a
recreation facility that is too small; Moore responded that as proposed, the facility is one
of the largest recreation buildings in Monroe County. Moore added that he is still
concerned about operational costs of the proposed recreation building.
13.) Info Only: Update on Veteran’s Memorial Park Bathroom Project –
Moore
Supervisor Moore reported that the old bathroom in Veteran’s Memorial Park has been
demolished and that Chris Martin, Director of Engineering & Planning, is determining the
5

TB Workshop March 30, 2015
location of a new ba
athroom. Martin said that the ne bathroom would be in a floodp
ew
e
plain,
ong
n
ain
d
ded
e
but as lo as they don’t put in a floor dra it should be okay. Moore add that the new
bathroom would be a one-pie pre-cast unit that t Town w
m
e
ece
t
the
would simpl have to p a
ly
put
roof on.
14.) Review Personnel Items – Moore
)
P
M
Rebecca Wiesner, Town Clerk and Rece
a
eiver of Ta
axes, repor
rted that sh and Bar
he
rbara
Chirdo, Director of Finance, met with Hea
D
m
ather Voss, a Deputy T
Town Clerk applicant, for a
k
second interview earlier that day. Wiesner propo
e
osed offerin Voss the Deputy T
ng
e
Town
osition at an annual sa
n
alary of thir thousan five hun
rty
nd,
ndred dollars ($30,500
0.00)
Clerk po
and the Town Boar voiced th approva of the job offer.
rd
heir
al
)
r
able – Mo
oore
15.) Consider Bills Paya
16.) Old Business
)
The Reg
gular Works
shop Meetin of the He
ng
enrietta Tow Board w moved f adjournm
wn
was
for
ment
by Coun
ncilman Pag at 5:00 P.M. and wa adjourne without o
ge
P
as
ed
objection.
Respectf
fully submit
tted,

Rebecca B. Wiesne
a
er
Town Clerk and Re
eceiver of Ta
axes

6

