-1-

Proceedings held before the Planning Board of Brighton at
2300 Elmwood Avenue, Rochester, New York on May 21, 2014
commencing at approximately 7:30 p.m.
PRESENT: William Price, Chairman
David Fader
Josh Babcock Stiner
Thomas J. Warth
Laura Civiletti
Andrea Thompkins Wright
John J. Osowski
Ramsey Boehner, Town Planner
David Dollinger, Deputy Town Att.
FIRE ALARM PROCEDURES WERE GIVEN
MR. CHAIRMAN: Good evening
Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to call to order the May 21, 2014
Town of Brighton’s Planning Board to order. We have minutes from the
March 19, 2014, and April 10, 2014 meeting do I have a motion to
approve those minutes with any corrections.
MR. FADER: I move to approve the minutes from
the March 19 and April 10 meetings.
MR. OSOWSKI: I will abstain since I wasn’t here
for the March meeting.
MR. BABCOCK STENIR: Second
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION CARRIED
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------MR. CHAIRMAN: Mr. Secretary will you verify
that the public hearings were advertised as required.
MR. BOEHNER: Yes, they were properly
advertised as required in the Brighton Pittsford Post of May 15, 2014.
MR. CHAIRMAN: Before we begin the public
hearings the agenda for tonight has been reduced. Application 1P-01-14

-2-

has withdrawn by the applicant as well as 12P-NB1-13. of Max M. Farash
Land Co. and application 5P-NB3-14 has been postponed to the June 18,
2014 meeting at applicant’s request.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------1P-01-14 Application of Sherry Dampier, owner and Joseph O’Donnell,
architect for EPOD ( watercourse) Permit Approval to allow for the
construction of a garage addition on property located at 3176 Elmwood
Avenue. All as described on application and plans on file. TABLED AT
THE JANUARY 15, 2014 MEETING – WITHDRAWN BY
APPLICANT.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------5P-01-14 Application of 2600 Elmwood LLC, owner, and Buckingham
Properties, agent, for Conditional Use Permit Approval and the Site Plan
Modification to install a 555 +/- sf outdoor dinning area in the front yard
with 20 seats on property located at 2600 Elmwood Avenue. All as
described on application and plans on file.
MR. THOMLINSON : My name is Matt
Thomlinson with Marathon Engineering and also with me is Arron
Malbone from Buckingham properties. We are here tonight to ask for
referral to the Zoning Board for approval on 555 sf patio located at 2600
Elmwood Avenue as mentioned. We are looking for outdoor seating at
this property to support the restaurant that are within the building. It will
be fenced and landscaped. We are anticipating having 20 seats outside and
two person tables. There are restrictions on the property with regards to
the total number of seats and this seating that is seasonal will not put us
above that number. Currently 99 seats are allowed within there according
to the existing use variances that are on the property. The current layout
within the building is 70 seats so the 20 additional out here would still be
below those limits. It does require two variances and that is what we will
be appearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals for. One is there is an
existing non-conforming variance on the property for green space. There
is 27.6 percent which is slightly lower than 27 percent due to the pavers
that we will be using here. It will be permeable paver with infiltration
allowed through it but we wanted to make sure we covered all out bases
for the variance request as our client is interested in moving this forward
as quickly as possible. The second variance is for a patio being built in the
front yard of this building. We have reached out to our neighbor to the

-3-

west and have a letter in support of that which I would like to give to the
Secretary of the Board. So we have reached out and presented the plans to
him and he is in support of the project. We will be removing one tree.
We did appear before the Conservation Board last Tuesday with regard to
the proposed plan. They were in favor of that and did not provide us with
any comments. With that I would like to open it us to any questions you
might have in regard to this proposal.
MR. CHAIRMAN: Could you just go
through some of the thought process you had in designing the patio. Why
it is where it is? A lot of drive by and see a lot of people hanging out or
congregating a little closer to the sidewalk that is there now and it doesn’t
seem to align with the door and the fence does not align with the columns.
I am just curious where the shape comes from and why is it offset from the
sidewalks.
MR. THOMLINSON: Sure, we wanted to
create space for people using the plaza. If they are just sitting there they
don’t feel like it is right on top of the parking lot. So we tried to maintain
some space there. There is an existing flag pole here with landscaping
around it that we are looking to maintain as well along the front of that
building. There is a door here that runs out to the covered entrance there
That door would essentially be circulating out to the patio. The fence
doesn’t line up with the column we were just trying to maintain spacing
around the patio and to limit the shape of it and give it a little bit of
character rather than just a rectangular patio out there. That fence location
can easily line up with the column if preferred that way by the tenant once
they start putting it in. As far as the location goes there is an overall plaza
plan if you will there and you will see behind the building on the east side
of the building there is a lot of shared agreements within this plaza with
the regards to parking, access circulation and that kind of thing. There is
no room to the west side it is about 10 feet from the property line and the
houses on the north side of the building. There is very limited availability
for this outdoor patio that is really being driven by the tenants and it is
what they are looking for to provide to their customers.
MR. CHAIRMAN: Any questions from the
Board?
MS. CIVILETTI: I hope you are making
sure that this isn’t too narrow here at the road into the patio area. I think

-4-

generally people tend to walk outdoors and run into somebody but they
don’t stop and talk but that looks like it could be a potential for that.
MR. THOMLINSON: We can look at the
circulation for that and make sure it works for the tenants.
MR. BOEHNER: You aren’t making any
improvements to the building just the patio section?
MR. THOMLINSON: Just the patio
section.
MR. BOEHNER: You have made the
Zoning application?
MR. THOMLINSON: We are on the
agenda for the June meeting.
MR. WARTH: I have one suggestion. It
looks like on the table is the Zoning variances and would there be a
drawing that has some elevations and what the fence and everything
would look like?
MR. THOMLINSON: We do have an
elevation of the fence that we are anticipating. It is a black picket fence,
just the detail of it but you are talking about on the patio itself with the
landscaping?
MR. WARTH: Yes, with the landscaping
and the fence and how that would appear.
MR. THOMLINSON: That is something we
can explore.
MS. THOMPKINS-WRIGHT: Is there
lighting proposed?
MR. THOMLINSON: Currently no there is
goosenecks over the entrances on the face of that I believe for the lighting
we will be using ambient lighting we are not proposing to add any
lighting.

-5-

MR. BOEHNER: No outside music?
MR. THOMLINSON: Not anticipated as
far as I know.
MR. CHAIRMAN: Does your drainage
require a cut into the street.
MR. THOMLINSON: It does not what is
there actually sits underneath the sidewalk. I believe we can core from
behind it. We have already talked to county DOT about the permitting.
MR. BOEHNER: What will the hours be
for that outdoor dining?
MR. MALBONE: Arron Malbone from
Buckingham Properties. The hours for operation for the patio should be
the same as the operation of the building. We are not going to limit access
to that which is from 5 a.m. to 11 p.m. for the variances.
MR. BOEHNER: So basically it will be
used during the operation?
MR. MALBONE: Yes.
MR. BOEHNER: How are you guys going
to handle litter? And what are you going to do to prevent litter?
MR. THOMLINSON: We can provide trash
receptacles outside? I don’t know if there are on staff maintenance people
there? Arron would know more about that?
MR. MALBONE: There are people that
will maintain that during the hours of operation.
MR. BOEHNER: So they will be out there
making regular checks?
MR. MALBONE: Yes.

-6-

MR. THOMLINSON: I don’t know if it is
possible to get a Conditional Approval at this point or if we need to come
back if we get our variance. Are there any comments that we need to
appear at the following Planning Board meeting?
MR. BOEHNER: Most likely but that will
be decided later.
MR. THOMLINSON: We will be notified
tomorrow morning?
MR. BOEHNER: Yes, you can call early in
the morning.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------5P-02-14
Application of Boy Scouts of America – Seneca Waterways
Council, owner, and Chait Studios, agent, for the Site Plan Modificatoin to
re-stripe the parking lot, adding 20 parking spaces and modify traffic flow
on property located at 2320 Brighton Henrietta Town Line road. All as
described on application and plans on file.
MR. CHAIT: Good evening my name is Stu
Chait, Architect and Agent for the Boy Scouts of America and Seneca
Waterway Council. With me tonight is Mary Ellen Smith who is from the
Seneca Waterway Council and we are here for a Site Plan Modification
which comes about as the Boy Scouts in occupying this building,
renovating the building require a different parking concept from what the
building was originally built for many years ago. We went through a
parking analysis with Rick Desteffano from the Town and we were able to
establish a number of grandfathered spaces for the building. The Scouts
occupy only so much square footage of it and in anticipation of the
balance of that space being vacant now and possibly being rented out to a
commercial tenant we wanted to be able to maximize our parking spaces.
If we don’t need them we would have them but we want to make sure we
have the ability to strip them as such. Now, in doing the analysis with
Rick we were able to establish that we needed 108 parking spaces. In
restriping the lot the lot itself affords us 88 parking spaces so we needed to
establish an additional twenty. The setback for the current conditions of
the site don’t allow us to really locate any additional asphalt any where
else. So what our plan essentially is to be on the east side of the property
at this Brighton Henrietta Town Line Road on the east side of the property
there is a drive that cartwheels around the property. We are proposing to

-7-

locate 20 spaces parallel parked 9 by 19 slightly larger than what the
Town requires and we are able to establish that we can still create this as a
one way in and one way out maintain the turning radius’ that Mr Roth
required for the fire fighting apparatus so you can satisfy that and get the
additional 20 spaces that we need so we would have an overall 108 spaces.
I have reviewed the plan with Mr. Roth, we did a fire protection worksheet
with him and the building itself is fully sprinklered, has fire department
connection outside. So to the best of my knowledge in discussing this
with Chris I received information back from the County Planning
Department that they have no comment on this. It is pretty straight
forward but I am opening it up to questions you may have.
MR. CHAIRMAN: I guess before this
presentation I wasn’t quite sure how did this building what was the
assumption of what this building was that allowed it to have the 88 spaces
prior to this.
MR. BOEHNER: It was designed for flex
spaces with 20 percent office and 80 percent warehouse.
MR. CHAIRMAN: Okay, would you spend
two minutes talking about what the boy scouts are doing here.
MR. CHAIT: The boy scouts are relocating
their Seneca Waterways Council headquarters which has been prior when
it was Latishana Council on East Avenue. It had been on East Avenue for
thirty or forty years they had been there forever and at that point I think
Mary Ellen can speak a little bit as to the reason for the relocation but they
are essentially relocating their operation here. They own the building.
Their needs only dictate that they need so much of the building currently
so the rest of it is partly vacant but seeing an opportunity that you could
have a commercial tenant there we want to make sure that parking space
wise we are okay. We did the parking analysis and this again is working
with Mr. Desteffano that 18,000 sf of this space were grandfathered in as
one space per 300 sf which gave us 60 spaces then if I took the balance of
the space which is an additional 12,000 which this is a 30,000 foot
building if we set aside one space per 250 for office occupancy that would
require another 48 spaces thus the 108 required. On the right hand side is
the building usage breakdown. The boy scouts only need to have 31
employees so they will never use the 60 spaces that the code is asking for
so we never anticipate full occupancy but obviously we have to meet code.

-8-

MR. BOEHNER: One thing about your
numbers there, the numbers on the left we are assuming a 30,000 sf
building the numbers on the right are totaling up to a building of 30,700 sf.
So you would be two spaces short if your short some spaces your analysis
of how many spaces you needed were based on having only a 30,000sf
building. So I am not sure which numbers are correct. We can’t resolve
that tonight I just wanted to point that out to you depending on what
numbers are the correct numbers you may be short parking if you want to
have office use in that building.
MR. CHAIT: I guess I am going to ask you
to explain that again because my numbers on the right add up to the square
footage of the building which is 30,000 sf. The scouts occupy 20,483 the
future tenant which is the north side of the building is 10,055 so its
30,000, we’ll call it 30,500 sf.
MR. BOEHNER: I am not sure which
numbers are right but we can clarify that, that is not the purpose of tonight
it is just something that popped up it is what it is you can only have so
many spaces.
MR. CHAIT: To make a point Ramsey,
part of the reason we did break down on the right hand side is that we have
13690 of office space and then there is a lot of redundant space within it
with storage, cleaning rooms and so on that I would beg to differ on how
you are going to look at it at it as 1 to 250 when it should be more 1 to a
larger square footage number.
MR. BOEHNER: Now is not the time to get
into that argument I am just point out it is something we are going to have
to straighten out. The numbers are going to be what the numbers are and
you are only going to be able to get so much parking on the site and we
will figure that out.
MR. CHAIT: As I said the scouts will never
need the 60 spaces that the code requires it just won’t be there. And to the
point of the code we are also sensitive to the fact that the code is written to
one space to 250 sqft that you could end up putting a very intensive use in
here like a call center which would never be done. So if that ends up
being a condition of what we are hoping is an approval here we want it to
be a very straight forward office space we don’t want to be dictated that

-9-

sorry you can’t use it for office space and you will have to use it for
warehouse space. We are not anticipating 40 people here.
MR. CHAIRMAN: So all of the future
tenant space you said is office space?
MR. CHAIT: We are saying we are asking
for 40 people where a call center you could ask for a lot more. I am here
to say that will never happen.
MR. BOEHNER: It couldn’t happen
because the code goes by square footage or number of employees
whichever is greater.
MR. CHAIRMAN: I guess we would like
you to speak a little bit about the use of the loading docks our concern
being if something gets parked there and you have a fire and they need to
get through.
MR. CHAIT: The way this building was
built originally each one of these small jets were loading docks and they
have all except for this middle one been decommissioned. There is only
one loading dock remaining the rest of these remain at points of egress for
the building. So the loading dock is right here in the middle. I can’t
answer as to when trucks are coming or going so even if these cars were
not here if there was a 60 foot tractor trailer here there would be an issue
of getting fire apparatus around. So to that point whether the cars are here
or not it is something I can’t anticipate.
MR. BOEHNER: Well you also now
encourage people to park behind the building and if the truck is there and
they are going one way how do they get out?
MR. CHAIT: How does the truck get out?
MR. BOEHNER: No, the car that just went
one way to go park down there. I guess the question is what type of trucks
are going to be used?
MR. CHAIT: I think they are going to be
package type trucks and more than likely coming to the front door.

-10-

MR. BOEHNER: Say you were to release
the vacant space to a tenant, say they were going to need a truck you open
up one of those loading docks and say they are going to park a semi- truck
there for a couple of days while it gets loaded or unloaded.
MR. CHAIT: They can’t because what we
will do is any future tenant it would be written into their lease that parking
here as well as temporary loading or other wise could not block any
potential fire fighting apparatus.
MR. BOEHNER: I am not just concerned
about the fire apparatus I am talking about vehicle traffic that we are
directing in through the run way. I mean we need more information about
that because it is one thing to have a semi parked there versus a UPS truck
that is going to drop their stuff off and be gone five minutes later. That is
why I am asking what type of truck deliveries do you have, how long are
they there and will they be blocking that lane off because that is something
we are going to need to know more information about. You may need
some space so a car can get around. If you use that loading dock you may
not be able to have cars parking around it so cars can get around it. If you
are going to be receiving semi’s and it is going to sit there you are
basically closing off that rear part of that building for parking and we are
trying to leave it open. Do you undersand what I am saying?
MR. CHAIT: I appreciate what you are
saying right now current deliveries that are anticipated by the scouts are
going to be package type deliveries which will be done by the front door
on the side. If all of a sudden Mushroom trucking pulls up and they have
a delivery it would be an unanticipated delivery so I can’t tell you it’s once
a week or once a month or whatever the potential of a semi pulling up. It
is an unknown schedule at this point. Deliveries would be UPS delivery up
front. The loading dock is being left there as a matter of convenience.
MR. BOEHNER: That is different so you
are saying the loading dock is not going to be used.
MR. CHAIT: This one is only here for
convenience only.
MR. BOEHNER: So deliveries would be
coming through the front door?

-11-

MR. CHAIT: Absolutely.
MR. WARTH: So would you be
comfortable with a condition that deliveries would have to be through the
front door?
MR. CHAIT: Absolutely, so if all of a
sudden a tractor trailer showed up with a delivery they are going to have to
get it off their back end and bring it to the front door. We won’t block this
aisle up.
MR. BOEHNER: So your testimony is that
is the only one still working and they are not planning on using it.
MR. CHAIT: That is the only one that is
not decommissioned. Again I don’t seriously see the 20 spaces being
ever used and we are stripping those only because we have to.
MS. THOMPSON-WRIGHT: Would those
people have to enter the front of the building?
MR. CHAIT: They would have to walk
around the building. It would be an inconvenience to park there.
MR. OSOWSKI: The existing parking is
there any way to adjust the size?
MR. CHAIT: I already have some of them
were oversized and I changed them back to the Town standard. So I was
able to pick up 5 or so spaces there. I could ask for a variance to take 20
spaces off the board but I doubt I would get it.
MR. CHAIRMAN: Are there any exterior
lighting being added beyond stripping the parking lot?
MR. CHAIT: Not exterior lighting or
anything preexisting some pole lights on the side here, the scouts do want
to locate a flag pole up in front it is a 30 foot high flag pole. The would
like to fly it 24/7 so that means we have to light it. The suggestion is to
add a 50 watt LED flood light on the street side of the poles shinning
away. It will be a very directional light so it is not going to have a lot of
light spillage.

-12-

MR. CHAIRMAN: Questions from the
Board? Since this is a public hearing does anyone have any questions in
the audience? We will move on. Thank you.

5P-03-14
Application of Beam Mack Sales and Service, owner, for
Demolition Review and Approval to raze a commercial building (
formerly Michelina’s Restaurant) on property located 2674-2700 West
Henrietta Road. All as described on application and plans on file.
MS. BRUGG: Good evening, my name is
Betsy Rugg and I am an attorney from Woods, Oviatt and Gilman, I am
here on this application of Beam Mack Sales and Service, requesting
approval for demolition of a building on their site at 2674-2700 West
Henrietta Road. If you have had a chance to visit the site you will see
there is a large Mack’s dealership on the site, the primary use for the
property is as a Mack’s Sales and Service Dealership, they are the only
one in the Rochester area. They occupy the majority of the parcel that we
are talking about as well as the parcel to the north and they have been
there for approximately 60 years. What we are asking approval for is to
demolish the smaller former Michelina’s Restaruant building. I think
maybe 2000 sf or 2100 sf, the building is vacant the restaurant has been
closed for some time, the building needs significant investment in order to
make it useful for any other use. The property is really primarily used as
the dealership. So we are requesting approval to demolish that building
and basically just restore and pave over that area. It is a very small area if
you look at the configuration of the site it is a very small area. What we
are showing is display area for the sale of trucks. Now in respect to the
approval that we are requesting you should have received a letter from the
Historic Preservation Commission they don’t have any concerns about this
building, the Conservation Board also took a look at this as required for
demolition application and they had no comments. So essentially we have
really a relatively useless building and we are requesting the approval to
remove it. I should note that Bob Cappers is here our project engineer and
Mr. Howard is here for the property owners.
MR. CHAIRMAN: Any additional
buildings planned?
MS. BRUGG: No, there is nothing
additional planned just to tear it down and pave it. It is a really small area
and there is not a whole lot of use for it.

-13-

MR. CHAIRMAN: I would ask that you
submit something as a layout for Ramsey to look at as a layout so it does
have some definition of the number of vehicles to be stored out there.
MS. BRUGG: We absolutely agree to
provide that. That is not a problem.
MR. KEIFFER: Bob Keiffer I am a
professional engineer retained by Beam Mack that plan will also maintain
the egress way so there won’t be vehicles parking in this area here.
MR. BOEHNER: When you submit the
plan we can look at that lot. You have done a pre-demolition asbestos
survey is that correct?
MS. BRUGG: Yes and that has been
submitted
MR. BOEHNER: And there was asbestos?
MS. BRUGG: Yes and that will be abated
by demolition time.
MR. BOEHNER: That asbestos removal
will be done prior to demolition?
MS. BRUGG: Yes.
MR. BOEHNER: What is the timing of the
restoration of the site from demolition to the site’s paving, do you have a
schedule or anything?
MR. KEIFFER: The contractor has been
identified and is ready to mobilize as soon as the asbestos is removed. I
anticipate the entire structure will take less than two weeks.
MR. BOEHNER: Is that all the same
contractor?
MR. KEIFFER: No, I think they will sub
the paving part to someone else.

-14-

MR. CHAIRMAN: This is a public hearing
is there anyone in the audience who cares to address this application?
Hearing none we will move on. The public hearings are closed.
MS. BRUGG: Thank you so much.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------12P-NB1-13 Application of Max M. Farash Land Co., LLC, by Max M.
Farash Declaration to Trust, owner and FCJE Holdings, LLC, applicant
for Preliminary Site Plan Approval, Preliminary Subdivision Approval and
Preliminary EPOD (woodlot) Permit Approval to construct a driveway
serving a 59,800 sg building in the Town of Henrietta that will house three
private schools and to subdivide one lot into two lots on property located t
447 French Road. All as described on application and plans on file.
TABLED AT THE DECEMBER 18, 2013 MEETING –WITHDRAWN
BY APPLICANT.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------5P-NB1-14 Application of Deacon Peter Bushunow, Holy Ascension of
Christ Church, owner for Preliminary Site Plan Approval to construct 576
+/- sf building addition and enlarge the parking lot ( 20 additional spaces)
on property located at 650 North Landing Road. All as described on
application and plans on file.
DEACON BUSHUNOW: I am Peter
Bushunow. And I am the deacon at our church and the chairman of the
building committee, so I am representing the owner and applicant. Our
congregation purchased this building in 2007 there was an existing church
built in the early 60’s with an attached rectory I am sorry the rectory is a
separate building but it is all in the same plot. There was some existing
parking but it was sort of grandfathered in the church prior to us. We are a
small congregation we have approximately 50 members total 50 people
about 30 adults and 20 children. We conduct worship services Saturday
nights and Sunday mornings and we don’t have at this time nor do we plan
any type of school or daycare or any other type of activity other than
worship services and fellowship coffee and donuts immediately after. Our
church is constructed as a split level building right now to access either the
main floor or the lower level of the fellowship hall you have to take stairs
and there is a stairway inside the building connecting the two levels and
the bathrooms are also very small and not accessible for anyone in a wheel
chair or with a walker or anything like that so we have an acute need to try

-15-

and improve that situation. And we have consulted with an architect
Barkstrum and LeCroix to make the building accessible we need to install
an addition. We need to install a three stop elevator with one stop at street
level or parking lot level and then a half floor up and a half floor down and
the only way we can really do this with this building is to construct an
addition. We also would need to move the existing stairway out of its
current location so that we can expand the bathrooms to be handicapped
accessible. So that is why we are proposing and at this point the sketches
that were provided are preliminary. We are asking for approximately a 24
foot addition to the west of the existing building. This addition will not
increase the capacity of the building. It will not increase the worship space
or the fellowship space. It will really be taken up by an elevator an
entranceway which is required and then an elevator and stairs and the way
it is designed I think it meets the idea that all entrances both for people in
a wheelchair all occurs through the same main door and will continue the
sort of east and west character of the building.
The second part of the project which we are
proposing is to expand our parking. As we started working with our site
engineer and the congregation in terms of the building project we really
feel that its important for us to expand the parking lot and we propose to
pave an area just to the east of the building. Our building is situated so
that there is a large empty green space to the south between us and the
access road to Indian Landing School and what our proposal will not
really affect any of that open area. We do plan a narrow pedestrian
sidewalk just to allow access from the parking lot to the front of the
building. There is existing foliage along the boundary line between us and
our neighbor to the east. We have contacted our only direct residential
neighbor and he is fully understanding of this and he has no objection and
in fact we brought up the question that town code would require a privacy
fence . He would actually prefer not to have any fencing because our use
is quite limited. So most of the week there is no cars parked there at all.
So it is up to the Board we may need a variance for that. We understand
that we will need some other Board approvals we will need a variance for
setback and setback for public utilities is 100 feet our existing is about 60
feet at our current entrance. The addition as proposed will still be within
the 40 foot setback required for residential buildings so we won’t really be
approaching the street any more than the rectory building or any of the
other buildings on the street. So we aren’t going to encroach there.
We know we will have to go to the Conservation Board and

-16-

the Architectural Board and as we have been developing these plans we
have contacted the Penfield school district and we surveyed the manhole
for storm water drainage which is on Penfield School property and there is
an existing storm sewer pipe extending from the area of our proposed
parking lot entering that manhole on Penfield School property. There is a
variance that was filed back in the 60’s when this was constructed. The
facility department of Penfield School assured me that there would not be
an issue of reconnecting our proposed storm sewer to that pipe. We had
the pipe inspected and it does need to be replaced. So the one condition
that the Penfield School will be asking us to do is to try to finish our
construction before school starts in September.
And I would just like to ask the Planning Board to
consider that we may need to break up this application that is it is sort of
two separate projects. The addition is one project and the parking
expansion is the second project and if there are any issues with the
Architectural Board or anything like that that delays us we may come back
and ask you to consider approving this site plan for the parking lot
expansion while we are still working out the addition. We think we can
meet all the deadlines with the architect but I know by experience
sometimes there are questions and revisions that are required.
So basically that’s our application and I think again
it is something that many of our parishioners young and old we need is
improved access to the building.
MR. CHAIRMAN: I notice that the parking
lot is a little bit close to the existing trees crossing the back of the property
and it is a little bit difficult to tell of course to what extent you are putting
parking in is entrenching the electric light poles and is it going to cause a
loss of those trees and we would ask you to confirm as to whether those
would be a problem or not.
DEACON BUSHUNOW: I understand and
we will look into that.
MR. BOEHNER: We did receive a letter
from your neighbor and they were quite generous and they don’t want a
fence but we have to make sure those trees don’t die.
DEACON BUSHUNOW: Understood.

-17-

MR. BOEHNER: The lighting along that
edge is overflowing into their property so some consideration should be
given to using residential shields to try mitigate the impacts of those lights
along that property line. So that is something you will need to look at. Did
they realize there was going to be lights in the parking lot?
DEACON BUSHUNOW: We did discuss
that with them and what we are proposing are residential style lanterns, 8
foot tall not any type of high intensity. These aren’t high intensity lights
but we can certainly – I believe the engineer indicated that on the lighting
plan he referenced a shield but it does overflow a little bit.
MR. BOEHNER: So you understand why I
am bringing it up.
DEACON BUSHUNOW: Absolutely and
we can ask him to revise that and suggest the type of light that will be
more directional.
MR. BOEHNER: Will those lights be on
timers?
DEACON BUSHUNOW: Correct and
again I think there is no activities going on most nights weekday nights
just Saturday and typically it ends at 9:30 and so when every one leaves
the lights can go off. We don’t expect there to be any need for parking lot
lighting other than when there is a planned activity at the church.
MR. BOEHNER: What would be the latest
that they would be out and the earliest that they would be on.
DEACON BUSHUNOW: There is really no
times in the morning that we would anticipate needing lighting. The latest
that they would be on to give us a cushion I would say is 10 o’clock with
the exception of one time of year which is on the eve of Easter. So from
Saturday night we have a midnight service on that night. That’s the only
time that we have any type of night time activity. So right now the lights
on the front of the church are on timer that basically is adjusted so that
they go on at dusk whenever it starts getting dark and go off at 11:00
o’clock. So we could adjust the ones in the back to go off earlier to do the
same thing on the lights we already have. Right now there is existing
lighting on the front of the church and it illuminates the entry way.

-18-

MR. BOEHNER: Do you know that you
need to get a variance for front setback.
DEACON BUSHUNOW: Correct.
MR. BOEHNER: And you know you need
to get Architectural Review board approval.
DEACON BUSHUNOW: Correct and that
is why I referenced that we have talked to the school on whose property
the storm sewer attachment is. We will need to repair and replace that
pipe that goes from our - there is an existing pipe but we had it inspected
and it is in very poor condition. The engineer says we will need to replace
it and the school is fine with us accessing their property to do that but they
want us to do that before school starts in September. So we will
immediately make applications to the Zoning and Architectural Boards
and if there is any kind of question about the addition we would like to
discuss with you coming back with a site plan specifically for parking and
possibly delaying the addition construction until next year.
MR. CHAIRMAN: Is the reason to do that
is to get that connection resolved prior to school starting.
DEACON BUSHUNOW: That is correct.
MR. BOEHNER: Is that an existing pipe?
DEACON BUSHUNOW: It is an existing
pipe. There may be a difference as to where it runs.
MR. BOEHNER: I think where the
Chairman is going is that is an existing pipe. Its there and you need to fix
it.
DEACON BUSHUNOW: I assume we
would need some sort of permit to excavate it. We can talk to the Town
Engineer. We can possibly repair the pipe and then wait for the approvals.
MR. BOEHNER: Yes , because the pipe is
broken and you need to fix it.
MR. CHAIRMAN: Any other questions?

-19-

MR. OSOWSKI: It appears the existing
pipe is an 8 inch clay pipe but it is not clear to me the section that needs to
be replaced. I can’t see the note but most of the new pipe is 12 inch
diameter so are you replacing the 8 inch with 12 inch pipe.
MR. BOEHNER: On the site before we get
into the architecture, the plans are a little hard to read so there is a number
of things I am going to ask the plans to address. I am not going to go into
detail here. But it will be outlined in a letter to you.
MR. CHAIRMAN: I am curious as to the
configuration of the front canopy over the door and the configuration that
was a very nice façade and I was curious about the rounded aspect to it.
DEACON BUSHUNOW: And I agree these
are relatively preliminary plans and we had a conversation with Ramsey
and he said you know if for some reason we don’t have a setback variance
we really don’t have a project here. So we had the architect look into what
we needed to present to the Town for preliminary and the roof line will be
a little lower than the existing roof line but it will reflect the same peak.
That will certainly be addressed in the formal application.
MR. BOEHNER: Peter one thing to make
sure is that when you apply for your variance that you make sure you have
your variance correct. Make sure that you don’t ask for too little.
DEACON BUSHUNOW: Correct. We are
comfortable that 24 feet is the maximum and again there are very strict
requirements for bathroom stall sizes and that is why I am asking for a 24
foot addition. It’s likely that the Final Plans would be much smaller than
that. I am confident they will not be bigger.
MR. BOEHNER: I guess I don’t want you
to go through the process and find out later it needs to be larger. Does this
addition have a basement .
DEACON BUSHUNOW: No it will be on a
slab. There will be – that is the entire building right now has a sort of half
basement. It’s approximately 4 or 5 feet below grade where the
fellowship level is and that is why you have to take stairs to go down into
it. That is a slab there is no basement, there is no occupied space
underneath that. So the elevator is designed to be the type that it can be on

-20-

a slab and there is an adjacent elevator equipment room there will not need
to be any pit or basement below that.
MR. BOEHNER: The drawings show the
addition going over the sanitary sewer line, were you planning to relocate
that sanitary sewer line. That is why I was asking if you had a basement.
That is something you are going to want to look at with your engineer .
DEACON BUSHUNOW: We will
definitely look at that with the engineer.
MR. OSOWSKI: Would it be possible to
push everything you are going to build to push it to the east of the
fellowship hall, I know you lose space in the fellowship hall and perhaps
reduce the setback or increase the setback.
DEACON BUSHUNOW: Correct, I think
we already have. It is a pretty small building, the existing building is
1660sf and the worship space and the fellowship space is 60 percent of
that on each floor so occupancy is really for 90 people but we would feel it
is not going to meet the needs of our congregation if we decrease the space
available for people. Also the architect is very concerned about trying to
reconfigure the existing architecture to try and put the elevator in there.
And we would also need at least a 5 foot deep entry way at street level that
is when somebody enters the building through the doors there needs to be
5 feet between them and the elevator or the stairs. So honestly that would
take up like 24 feet of our 50 foot building and I honestly don’t think it
would work. We considered building our addition to the side of the
building but it would still technically not be – we would still need a
variance because the Town code is 100 feet and building an addition to the
side would not really meet – first of all it would ruin the architectural plan
of the building and it would not really meet the spirit of accessability code
that people come into the building through the main doors. We can
provide pictures of the site. We certainly will for the Zoning Board
meeting. It is not a crowded site. The school is to the south. The rectory
is here and then there is Clinton Road so our nearest neighbor to the north
is a house and street away and my opinion it is not going to crowd anyone.
Right now there is a brick and concrete porch with steps which does not
count as part of the building and the addition will replace that concrete
porch and steps. So I think it will really not bring the building very close
to the sidewalk at all. It will still be 40 feet from the sidewalk.

-21-

MR. CHAIRMAN: Okay thank you is there
anyone in the audience that cares to address this application. That is it for
the public hearings for tonight.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------5P-NB3-14 Application of Max M. Farash Land Co, LLC By Max M.
Farash Declaration in Trust, owner and FCJE Holdings, LLC, applicant
for Preliminary Site Plan Approval, Preliminary Subdivision Approval,
Preliminary Conditional Use Permit Approval and Preliminary EPOD
(woodlot) Permit Approval to construct a portion of a 59,800 +/- building
housing three private schools and a driveway servicing the schools and to
subdivide one lot into two on property located at 447 French Road. All as
described on application and plans on file. POSTPONED TO THE JUNE
18, MEETING AT APPLICANT’S REQUEST.

Lead Agency request from the Town of Henrietta, see letter and
attachments from Christopher E. Martin, P.E. Director of Engineering &
Planning, dated May 16, 2013.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------OLD BUSINESS
NONE
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------PRESENTATIONS
NONE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------COMMUNICATIONS:
Letter from Ransey Boehner, Historic Preservation Commission Secretary,
dated April 28, 2014 stating the Historic Preservation Commission has
reviewed the demolition application for 2674 West Henrietta Road and
will not schedule a public hearing to consider the property for landmark
status.
Letter from Betsy Brugg, Woods, Oviatt, Gilman, LLP dated April 22,
2014 with drawing application 12P-NB1-13.

-22-

Letter to the Honorable Town Board, from Ramsey Boehner, Town
Planner, dated May 9, 2014 recommending that the Planning Board review
and report pursuant to Section 209-5.C the Jewish Senior Life Incentive
Zoning and Rezoning proposal.
Letter from Betsy Brugg, Woods Ofiatt Gilman, dated May 16, 2014,
requesting postponement of application 5P-NB3-14 to the June 18, 2014
meeting.
Letter from Dan and Anne Kapp, 35 Klink Road, dated May 16, 2014
regarding application 5P-NB1-14.
Letter from Joseph O’Donnell, architect, withdrawing application 1P-0114.

PETITIONS
NONE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------5P-01-14 Application of 2600 Elmwood LLC, owner, and Buckingham
Properties, agent, for Conditional Use Permit Approval and the Site Plan
Modification to install a 555 +/- sf outdoor dinning area in the front yard
with 20 seats on property located at 2600 Elmwood Avenue. All as
described on application and plans on file.
MR. WARTH: I move that the application
be tabled based on the testimony given and plans submitted. Additional
information is requested in order to make a Determination of Significand
and to have a complete application. The following conditions shall be
addressed:
1. All required variances shall be obtained.
2. The outdoor dining area shall be limited to 20 seats without further
approval by the Planning Board. The total number of combined indoor
and outdoor seats shall not exceed the 99 seater previously approved
for the indoor seating.
3. The outdoor dining area shall not exceed 555 square feet in area.

-234. All requirements of Section 203-84.B(4) – Outdoor Dining Facilities –
of the Comprehensive Development Regulations shall be met.
5. The outdoor dining area shall be used only for dining by seated
patrons. No live or broadcast music or other entertainment, no outdoor
food preparation and no bards for service of alcohol shall be allowed
in conjunction with the outdoor dining facility.
6. During each day of operation of the outdoor dining area, a restaurant
employee shall regularly patrol the area within 300 feet of the outdoor
dining area to collect an trash or litter which may have been generated
by the restaurant operations or customers, to the extent that such a
patrol can be done safely and that permission is obtained from
neighboring property owners, where necessary.
7. The outdoor dining area shall only be operated during the hours of
operation of the associated restaurants.
8. Landscaping and fencing shall be installed as proposed. The applicant
shall ensure that the proposed plantings are maintained in a neat and
attractive condition.
9. There shall be no exterior lighiting installed in conjunction with the
outdoor dining use without further approval by the Planning Board.
MR. FADER: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE

MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------5P-02-14
Application of Boy Scouts of America – Seneca Waterways
Council, owner, and Chait Studios, agent, for the Site Plan Modificatoin to
re-stripe the parking lot, adding 20 parking spaces and modify traffic flow
on property located at 2320 Brighton Henrietta Town Line road. All as
described on application and plans on file.
MS. CIVILETTI: I move to close the
application.
MR. BABCOCK STINER: Second
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION UNAMIOUSLY CARRED

-24-

MS. CIVILETTI: I move the Planning
Board approves the application based on the testimony given, plans
submitted and with the following conditions:
1. An operational Permit shall be obtained from the Town of Brighton
Fire Marshal ( Chris Roth, 585-7845220)
2. Approval of the parking & circulation plan shall be obtained from the
Fire Marshal prior to any re-stripping of the parking area.
3. The accessible parking space proposed on the northwest corner of the
building shall be relocated to the entrance.
4. The applicant shall ensure that all accessible parking areas meet all
applicable requirements including, but not limited to , number of
spaces, location of the spaces, dimension of spaces and loading areas,
sidewalk access and signage.
5. Lighting details shall be submitted to and approved by the town
Building and Planning Department prior to installation of any new
exterior lighting.
6. The proposed flag pole shall meet the requirements of Section 2073(B) of the Brighton comprehensive Development Regulations. Only
flags as excepted from the Brighton Sign Regulations in Section 20725(D) are allowed without further approval.
7. The entire building shall comply with the New York State Uniform
Fire Prevention and Building Code and shall comply with all
occupancy limits as set by the Brighton Fire Marshal. All required
permits shall be obtained.
8. All Town codes shall be met that related directly or indirectly to the
applicant’s request.
9. The ratio of office area to warehouse area shall be regulated by the
existing parking lot’s ability to meet the parking requirements for
office use and warehouse use of the Brighton Town Code. Any
additional parking areas shall be subject to site plan approval. The
applicant should be aware that the currently proposed plan does not
appear to provide sufficient parking for the entire building to be office
use.

-25-

10. Meet all requirements of the Town of Brighton’s Department of
Public Works.
11. Outside storage and display shall be prohibited without further
approval.
12. Any discharge to the sanitary sewer system shall meet all town,
county, state and federal requirements.
13. All Monroe County comments shall be addressed.
14. All comments and requirements of the Town Building Inspector and
Fire Marshal shall be addressed.
15. All comments and concerns of the DPW as contained in the attached
memo dated May 20, 2013 from Evert Garcia to Ramsey Boehner
shall be addressed.
16. A letter or memo in response to all Planning Board and DPW
comments and conditions shall be submitted.
17. Deliveries shall be limited through the front doors and the loading
dock will not be used.
MR. BABCOCK STEINER: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------5P-03-14
Application of Beam Mack Sales and Service, owner, for
Demolition Review and Approval to raze a commercial building (
formerly Michelina’s Restaurant) on property located 2674-2700 West
Henrietta Road. All as described on application and plans on file.
MR. FADER: I move to close the application.
MS. CIVILETTI: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED.

-26-

MS. CIVILETTI: I move that the Planning Board
adopts the following findings based on the application submitted,
testimony presented, and the determination, comments and
recommendations of the Historic Preservation Commission and
Conservation Board.
DETERMINATION OF SIGNIFICANCE
I move that the Planning Board of the Town of Brighton declares itself to
be lead agency under the State of New York Environmental Quality
Review Act. After considering the action contemplated, the Planning
Board finds it to be an Unlisted Action. Upon review of the
Environmental Assessment form, the application and materials submitted,
and the criteria for determining significance pursuant to the SEQRA the
Planning Board finds that the proposed action will not have a significant
impact on the environment. The Planning Board adopts the negative
declaration prepared by Town Staff.
DEMOLITION FINDINGS:
1. The existing building has been found by the Commission not to be a
candidate for designation by the Historic Preservation Commission as
a landmark.
2. The Conservation Board has reviewed the project per the requirements
of this article and their determinations and recommendations have
been considered.
3. The project is consistent with the Brighton Comprehensive Plan.
4. The project meets all Town zoning requirements, or a variance has
been granted by the Brighton Zoning Board of Appeals.
5. The Brighton Department of Public Works has approved the proposed
grading plan for the project.
6. The project complies with the requirements of the Town’s regulations
regarding trees.
7. A restoration plan has been approved by the Planning Board.

-27-

8. The project will comply with the requirements of NYSDOL, Code
Rule 56 regarding asbestos control and Chapter 91 of the Code of the
Town of Brighton, Lead-Based Paint Removal. In addition to any
other requirements of Code Rule 56, the project will comply with
Section 56-3,4(a)(2) regarding on site maintenance of a project record,
Section 56-3.6(a) regarding 10 Day Notice requirements for residential
and business occupants, the licensing requirements of Section 56-3 and
asbestos survey and removal requirements of Section 56-5.
9. The project will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be
detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of persons residing
or working in the neighborhood and will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to property or improvements in the
neighborhood.
10. The project does not have a significant negative impact on affordable
housing.
MS. CIVILETTI: I also move the Planning
Board approves the application based on the testimony given, plans
submitted and with the following conditions:
1. All asbestos shall be abated prior to issuance of a demolition permit.
Certification that the asbestos has been abated shall be submitted.
2. All comments and concerns of the Town Engineer as contained in the
attached memo from Evert Garcia to Ramsey Boehner shall be
addressed.
3. The project will comply with the requirements of NYSDOL, Code
Rule 56 regarding asbestos control and Chapter 91 of the Code of the
Town of Brighton, Lead-Based Paint Removal. In addition to any
other requirements of Code Rule 56, the project will comply with
Section 56-3,4(a)(2) regarding on site maintenance of a project record,
Section 56-3.6(a) regarding 10 Day Notice requirements for residential
and business occupants, the licensing requirements of Section 56-3 and
asbestos survey and removal requirements of Section 56-5.
4. The contractor shall designate a member of his or her firm to be
responsible to monitor erosion control, erosion control structures, tree
protection and preservation throughout construction.

-28-

5. All disturbed areas shall be protected from erosion either by mulch or
temporary seeding within two weeks of disturbance.
6. Should excavation disturb any apparently archaeologically sensitive
areas, there shall be immediate cessation of work and notification of
the Town.
7. All other reviewing agencies must issue their approval prior to the
Department of Public Works issuing its final approval.
8. A letter of credit shall be provided to cover certain aspects of the
project, including, but not limited to demolition, restoration and
erosion control. The applicant’s engineer shall prepare and submit to
the Town Engineer for his review and approval an itemized estimate of
the scope of the project as a basis for the letter of credit.
9. Meet all requirements of the Town of Brighton’s Department of Public
Works.
10. All Town code shall be met that relate directly or indirectly to the
applicant’s request.
11. The project and its construction entrance shall meet the New York
State Standards and Specifications for Erosion and Sediment Control.
12. The contractor shall designate a member of his or her firm to be
responsible to monitor erosion control, erosion control structures,
tree protection and preservation throughout construction.
13. Prior to the issuance of any permits the applicant shall obtain and
submit a 239-F Permit from Monroe County DOT if required.
14. A Demolition Permit must be obtained from the Building and Planning
Department prior to demolition
15. Prior to demolition a permit must be obtained. A note should be added
to the plans indicating such. Additionally a sewer permit shall be
obtained prior to the start of demolition.
16. All utilizes services serving the property shall be disconnected at the
direction of the utility provide. The severance of utility services

-29-

should be confirmed by the Sewer Department and other agencies prior to
demolition.
17. A letter or memo in response to all Planning Board and Town
Engineer comments and conditions shall be submitted.
MR. FADER: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------5P-NB1-14 Application of Deacon Peter Bushunow, Holy Ascension of
Christ Church, owner for Preliminary Site Plan Approval to construct 576
+/- sf building addition and enlarge the parking lot ( 20 additional spaces)
on property located at 650 North Landing Road. All as described on
application and plans on file.
MR. FADER: I move that the application
be tabled based on the testimony given and plans submitted. Additional
information is requested in order to make a Determination of Significance
and to have a complete application. The following information is required
to be submitted no later than two weeks prior to the next Planning Board
Meeting:
1. A highway permit must be obtained prior to working within the North
Landing Road right of way.
2, The sanitary sewer shall be relocated as required by the Town
Engineer.
3 The entire building shall comply with the most current Building & Fire
Codes of New York State.
4. Prior to issuance of any building permits, all plans for utility and storm
water control systems must be reviewed and have been given approval
by appropriate authorities Prior to any occupancy, work proposed on
the approved plans shall have been completed to a degree satisfactory
to the appropriate authorities.

-30-

5. Meet all requirements of the Town of Brighton’s Department of Public
Works.
6. All Town code shall be met that relate directly or indirectly to the
applicant’s request.
7. The project and its construction entrance shall meet the New York
State Standards and Specifications for Erosion and Sediment Control.
8 The contractor shall designate a member of his or her firm to be
responsible to monitor erosion control, erosion control structures, tree
protection and preservation throughout construction.
9 All trees to be saved shall be protected with orange construction fencing
placed at the drip line or a distance greater than the drip line. Trees shall
be pruned, watered and fertilized prior to , during and after construction.
Materials and equipment storage shall not be allowed in fenced areas.
10 Maintenance of landscape plantings shall be guaranteed for three years.
11.Any contractor or individual involved in the planting, maintenance or
removal of trees shall comply with the requirements of the town”s
Excavation and Clearing ( Chapter 66). Trees (Chapter 175) and other
pertinent regulations and shall be registered and shall carry insurance as
required by Chapter 175 of the Comprehensive Development Regulations.
12 The proposed addition does not meet the 100’ foot setback
requirement. A variance must be obtained from the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
13. The architectural design and building materials of the proposed
buildings must be reviewed and approved by the Town of Brighton
Architectural Review Board.
14. A certified arborist shall be consulted regarding the survival of the
existing trees that are affected by the proposed parking area
improvements. A written statement from the arborist should be
provided detailing the impact of the proposed parking area on the
existing trees.
15. The lighting photometrics indicate that light with an intensity of 1 foot
candle will be discharged from the site. The lighting should be

-31-

compliant with dark sky standards and the light spill from the site
should be reduced. A residential shield should be considered to
reduce the impacts to the abutting residential property. A revised
lighting plan shall be submitted.
16. All dimensions of the proposed addition and parking spaces must be
shown on the plans. The parking space size and access lane width
must comply with the Code of the Town of Brighton. The access lane
width located in the northeast corner of the parking does not meet
code.
17. The distance between the rear parking area and the property line must
be shown on the plans. Sufficient dimensions to determine the
location of the proposed parking improvements with respect to the
property line must be shown on the plans.
18. The front setback dimension of the proposed addition must be shown
on the plans.
19. The Site Development Statistics must be revised to include proposed
improvements and must show the correct requirements for setback,
pavement cover age and lot coverage.
20. The parking lot shall be striped as per the requirements of the
Brighton Comprehensive Development Regulations.
21. The following comments of the Conservation Board must be
addressed?
A. Representation by the applicant would have been beneficial for
the Board to better understand some aspects of the project.
B. Unclear on whether stormwater mitigation meets the town’s
minimum requirements.
C. The use of green infrastructure techniques as encouraged.
D. The loss of the tow larger trees along North Landing Road
should be mitigated with the planting of two street trees further
to the south along North Landing Road.
E. It appears there will be trimming of trees on the neighboring
property to the east. Does the applicant have permission from
the neighbor to trim these trees?
F. Dark sky compliant lighting should be used and placed on
timers to turn off at night when the property is not in use.

-32-

22. All County Development Review Comments shall be addressed prior
to final approval.
23 All other reviewing agencies must issue their approval prior to the
Department of Public Works issuing its final approval.
24 Erosion control measures shall be in place prior to site disturbance.
25. A letter of credit shall be provided to cover certain aspects of the
project, including, but not limited to landscaping, stormwater
mitigation, infrastructure and erosion control. The applicant’s
engineer shall prepare as itemized estimate of the scope of the project
as a basis for the letter of credit.
26. The parking lot lights shall be placed on a timer and shall be turned
off from 11p.m. to ..a.m.
27. The applicant’s architect shall evaluate the project relative to the
Town of Brighton sprinkler ordinance to determine if the building
needs to be sprinklered. This evaluation shall be submitted with the
final application.
28. All comments and concerns of the Town Engineer as contained in the
attached memo dated from Michael Guyon, Town Engineer to
Ramsey Boehner, shall be addressed.
29. A letter or memo in response to all Planning Board and Town
Engineer comments and conditions shall be submitted.
MR. WARTH: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------Lead Agency request from the Town of Henrietta, see letter and
attachments from Chrisopher E. Martin, P.E. Director of Engineering &
Planning, dated May 16, 2014.

-33MR. BOEHNER: I received a request from
Henrietta to take lead agency for the application of Max Farash Land Co.
I would recommend that the Planning Board authorize me to get back to
them that they be lead agency regarding this matter. The letter states it is
to the Henrietta Town Board, Henrietta Zoning Board, the Town of
Brighton, Monroe County Department of Public Health, Monroe County
Planning and Development, Monroe County Department of
Transportation, New York State Department of Environmental
Conservation and New York State Department of Transportation and New
York State Thruway Authority. I think they played it safe and they did
write us a letter and it was addressed to me me but as the Secretary I am
not authorized to reply and it should have been addressed to the Planning
Board to my attention but they addressed it to me and I don’t think they do
a lot of SEQR.
MR. CHAIRMAN: The Planning Board is seeking
authorization for the Secretary to respond on their behalf to allow
Henrietta to be lead agency.
MR. FADER: I so move.
MR. WARTH: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED

*****

SIGNS - 1
1310 TOPS Pharmacy, Deli Bakery Café, for a building face sign at 1900
South Clinton Avenue.
TABLED FOR THE FOLLOWING
1. All required variances shall be obtained.
2. The new location of the sign components (vs architectural
elevations previously reviewed) alter the visual character of the
façade previously reviewed.
1327 Sabra Grill for a building face sign at 2600 Elmwood
Avenue.
1328 J.S. Excel Flooring for a building face sign at 2341 Monroe
Avenue.
TABLED FOR THE FOLLOWING
1. The outline of the sign should be simplified and not to exceed
the dimensions on the application.
2. White space should be reduced.
3. The spacing between the letters should be improved.
4. Consider introducing a black underscore aligned with the
“inc.”
5. Consider eliminating “J>D>” to improve legibility from the
road.
1329 Fastenal for a building face sign (2) at 2856 West Henrietta
Road.
1330 M&T Bank for a building face sign at 1427 Monroe Avenue.
1331 Hess for a Canopy Signs at 3000 Winton Road South
CONDITION
1. All requirements of previous approvals shall be met.
1332 Hess for a Canopy Sign at 222 Jefferson Road
CONDITION
1. All requirements of previous approvals shall be met.

SIGNS - 2
OLD BUSINESS
1309

Monster Video Game for a building face sign at 2858 West
Henrietta Road.
TABLED FOR THE FOLLOWING
1. All required variances shall be obtained.
2. The spacing between the lines shall be reduced.
3. The sign should be vertically centered within the sign band.

MR. CHAIRMAN: I move that signs 1327,
1329, 1330, and 1331, 1332 with conditions be approved and 1310,
1328, and 1309 be tabled.
MR. FADER: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED

1P-01-14
Application of Sherry Dampier, owner and Joseph
O’Donnell, architect for EPOD ( watercourse) Permit Approval to allow
for the construction of a garage addition on property located at 3176
Elmwood Avenue. All as described on application and plans on file.
TABLED AT THE JANUARY 15, 2014 MEETING –PUBLIC
HEARING REMAINS OPEN – Postponed to the May 21, 2014 meeting
at applicant’s request.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------4P-01-14 Application of Corporate Woods of Brighton owner and Ellie
Phillips (Phillips European Restaurant), lessee, for Conditional Use Permit
Approval to allow for outdoor dining in association with an existing
restaurant on property located at 26 Corporate Woods. All as described on
application and plans on file.
MS. PHILLIPS: I am Ellie Phillips owner
of Phillips Corporate Woods since 1988. Here tonight to ask for a permit
to have some outdoor seating. We did hear this application a few years
back if you will general.
MR. CHAIRMAN: For the record tell us
what you would like to do.
MS. PHILLIPS: We did come in a couple
of years ago and finding things tuff we decided we could not financially
afford to do the project for the time being. We have gone through that
period and we are excited to continue at Corporate Woods and we have
now an almost 30 year track record producing cakes and pastries and good
things. We don’t intend to change our hours or anything. We are open
Monday thru Saturday from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m. and we thought it would
be really nice in those few summer months to have outdoor seating on the
end of the building which is basically a not too attractive space at the
moment. It is just a slab with a little bit of vegetation around the edges.
So we thought we could make some useful space and put out a few
outdoor seating tables. And it would be access through the doors of the
restaurant so that the guests would come in through the restaurant and be
seated outside so we would be able to maintain it and make sure it was
looked after because it would be fenced in.

-3-

MR. BOEHNER: What do you mean by
enclosing it?
MS. PHILLIPS: With a three foot high
barrier fence. We just think it will add a lot of European-ness to our
European Restaurant which currently is in a retail plaza and I don’t think
from the outside attracts business from it’s appearance but we still stay
busy. We would look after it . We would do the trash in a normal way
as we would look at the trash at Corporate Woods since our inception
there and we don’t anticipate any major differences in a few summer
months during normal hours. We would light it. We would provide any
emergency exists with a gate in the fencing but we have lots of exits and
egresses. We have doors all over the plaza.
MR. BOEHNER: So the lighting you are
talking about is a 100 watt light?
MR. LANGLEY: Scott Langley. There is a
canopy that goes around there and underneath it has lighting already. It
would be a light underneath the canopy.
MR. BOEHNER: So the lighting is already
there? Shooting down and that’s 100 watt?
MR. LANGLEY: Yes and in addition we
have a sconce underneath.
MR. BOEHNER: Shooting down that is
100 watt.
MR. LANGLEY: Yes.
MR. CHAIRMAN: We have a couple of
questions about the outdoor seating itself. Can you tell us if you have
spoken to the other tenants in the plaza? You can tell which is occupied.
MS. PHILLIPS: Yes, they come and go and
go more than come. We have next to us now a beauty salon or metro
salon and then next to that is a small tanning place and that is it. That is
all that is in the plaza right now.
MR. BOEHNER: You are here with Spall?

-4-

MR. LANGLEY: Yes, I have to do
something later on.
MR. BOEHNER: What we notice with the
increased seating that she has outside, it looks as if she has enough parking
if the spaces were to be used for retail but if they go for a more intense use
you may have to get a variance or something down the road. But I would
worry about that as you get a little bit closer just so you are aware of it.
MR. CHAIRMAN: The last time you were
in there was a little bit of discussion about replacing the sidewalk currently
along the side of the building and is accessible to the building to the back .
This shows that that sidewalk is being cut off and being replaced over by
the curb.
MR. LANGLEY: That is correct.
MR. CHAIRMAN: And will you be
actually removing the concrete and pavers that are there and pouring new
concrete?
MR. LANGLEY: Yes.
MR. CHAIRMAN: Okay, so the area from
the fence back that portion of the fence along the west wall you will be
taking up that concrete, topsoil and seed and all of that?
MR. LANGLEY: Yes, from the existing
one to where it comes up and is cut off, yes we will be taking that off.
MR. CHAIRMAN: That is just going back
to a lawn?
MR. LANGLEY: Yes.
MR. BOEHNER: The height of the fence is?
MR. LANGLEY: Three foot.
MR. CHAIRMAN: Any questions? This is
a public hearing is does anyone care to address this application? Hearing
none we will move on.
-5-

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------4P-02-14 Application of Mike Donoghue, owner, and Janine Wasley (
Avvino Restaurant). Lessee, for Conditional Use Permit Approval to allow
for outdoor dining in association with an existing restaurant on property
located at 2541 Monroe Avenue. All as described on application and
plans on file.
MS. WASLEY: My name is Janine Wasley,
I own Avvino Restaurant on Monroe Avenue. We opened just over eight
months ago. Things are going very well. We have gotten a great response
from the community and it has been great to be a part of the Town of
Brighton. Although we are expecting our sales to decrease about 30 to 40
percent this summer so we would like to add 3 or 4 tables outside to keep
our business steady. So as you can see Randy has drawn some renderings.
MR. CHAIRMAN: I think you should
introduce your self?
MR. PEACOCK: Randy Peacock.
MR. CHAIRMAN: The stairwell that is the
emergency egress for the rest of the building empties onto this space.
From a fire code standpoint do you see any problems?
MR. PEACOCK: We have laid the tables
out to maintain that opening and also in the planters so that would be
maintained with the required egress width to assure that backyard area.
MS. WASLEY: The fire marshal was out
two weeks ago and he said he didn’t see any issues at all.
MR. PEACOCK: We actually increased the
safety in the restaurant itself because we do plan to put a door in to access
directly to the patio so that gives us a third access out of the restaurant.
MR. CHAIRMAN: Okay the other question
has to do with your liquor license. So the liquor license require this space
to be fully enclosed?
MR. PEACOCK: No, it just requires that it
be defined not controlled.

-6-

MR. BOEHNER: Have you gone to the
Architectural Review Board yet.
MR. PEACOCK: We have not.
MR. BOEHNER: The application is coming
up quick. Are you doing the awning?
MR. PEACOCK: We are looking at
budgets. We opted for a trellis rather than a fixed canopy.
MR. BOEHNER: If you do want the awning
just come back in at a latter date.
MR. PEACOCK: Yes, all the planters are
removable as well as the tables and umbrellas.
MS. CIVILETTI: Is there exterior lighting
proposed?
MS. WASLEY: We are going to do some
string lights underneath the umbrellas with very low wattage.
MR. CHAIRMAN: We are curious about
outdoor heaters?
MS. WASLEY: W don’t proposed to use
any.
MR. BOEHNER: Back on the lights, do
you know what type of lighting you are using and the wattage?
MS. WASLEY: You are probably dealing
with 40 watt, almost like Christmas tree lights that hang inside the
umbrella?
MR. BOEHNER: Okay, do you plan to have
candles outside, this is a question from the Fire Marshall and if you do
they would prefer they be battery operated.
MS. WASLEY: No, no candles.

-7-

MR. BOEHNER: This is another question I
had there was a condition on the original application limiting the
restaurant to 64 seats. You are proposing in this application to continue
having those 64 seats plus 14 outside seats. Is that right?
MS. WASLEY: No, we would probably
keep some tables inside open and not seat them due to weather conditions
in Rochester if people wanted to move inside we want to have space for
them.
MR. BOEHNER: Let me ask you this I
didn’t know the answer to this so I went back to the old application, has
anything changed in that building as far as tenants or hours of operation
because we based your last application that after 5 that parking lot is
empty?
MS. WASLEY: Nothing has changed.
MR. BOEHNER: That parking lot is still
fairly empty besides your traffic?
MS. WASLEY: Yes, even on our busiest
nights we still have parking spots.
MR. PEACOCK: There are 58 spots in that
lot.
MR. BOEHNER: So where I was if it okay
with your landlord I went back to the old record I’m showing that the
reason we picked 64 was that you told us you were going to have 64 seats.
We never calculated how many seats you could have. So I think you
could have the 14 outdoor seats. So it would be your intent to want to have
those 14 additional seats is really what you are wanting to do. I think that
is okay because if the Board is favorable to this application it would be a
condition that you would still have the same number of seats inside, 64
and 14 additional for outside and they are only temporary?
MS. WASLEY: That is correct.
MR. BOEHNER: The last thing I think we
are okay the Site Plan wasn’t scaling because you tried to get it on one
sheet.

-8-

MR. PEACOCK: That was to scale.
MR. BOEHNER: It isn’t to scale.
MR. PEACOCK: I asked her to put it on to
scale so I am sorry.
MR. BOEHNER: I think what happened is
she tried to fit it on one sheet. I was trying to find out 10 feet because the
code said that you can not have outdoor dining within 10 feet of a side
property. It looks close?
MS. WASLEY: I think it is 12 feet one inch.
MR. BOEHNER: Okay we are going to
need that to be verified. I sense that you meet the requirement.
MR. PEACOCK: Just to make it clear that is
12 feet away from a two story brick wall.
MR. CHAIRMAN: Anything else? This is a
public hearing does anyone care to address this application? Hearing none
we will move on.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------4P-04-14 Application of 2144 BHTL Road, LLC, owner for Conditional
Use Permit Approval to allow for an office, production and printing
facility on property located at 2144 BHTL Road. All as described on
application and plans on file.
MR. PALUMBO: Good evening my name
is Mike Palumbo I am with Flaum Management and we are the owners of
2144 Brighton Henrietta Town Line Road. We recently purchased 2144
and 2100 on January 6th from Reed Management and are in the process of
re-tenanting these buildings.
MR. CHAIRMAN: Okay, I think we are all
reasonably comfortable with the explanations provided. I have one
question on number 8. Of the description submitted, we would like to
know what is soluble support PH7-9?

-9-

MR. PALUMBO: Basically it’s water that
is coming out of there 3 dimensional printer.
MR. BOEHNER: Is there an MSDS for
that.
MR. PALUMBO: There are not chemicals
associated in the water.
MR. BOEHNER: So do they design the
printers I am just curious?
MR. PALUMBO: No, they actually bring
the printer in and they do printing for other companies and then send it
out. They will have a small 3-D printer basically. And they will be
printing off different types of printer boards in plastic before they go out
to be manufactured. They design these for manufacturers and then ship
the smaller products out.
MR. CHAIRMAN: In other locations do
they typically start out with this type of space requirement?
MR. PALUMBO: This is probably as big as
it is going to get. They can add more printers they don’t need more
people. When we bought these buildings and we started working with
some of the tenants we were trying to get a feel for the expansion and this
is one of these groups that said we will be in this foot print forever.
Technology is not going to get any smaller. It could get bigger but
ultimately not in this treatment.
MR. BOEHNER: They don’t see growing?
MR. PALUMBO: Not in this treatment no.
MS. CIVILETTI: What is the actual size of
the printer?
MR. PALUMBO: It’s about 3 by 3. It is not
big at all.
MS. WRIGHT: What is the parking like is
there sufficient parking?

-10-

MR. BOEHNER: When they came in
originally for approval the old parking code was one to three hundred. So
we are using that code for the rest of this building and we considered this
and looked at this use as office use, primarily as an office use. So we said
the original building was office and this space was calculated as office and
we are still saying it is very similar to the use coming in. Parking right
now isn’t a problem because there are vacant spaces. I think what you are
concerned about I believe you have five spaces allocated for the use but if
you add up number of employees and visitors you may have a need greater
than five spaces.
MR. PALUMBO: I don’t think in this
particular building we will. We have 80 spaces total and if you add the
existing tenants that are in there we are far below that and the spaces as
they are laid out now, they very but some of these other spaces are more
flex, more warehouse with a little less parking. They are not labor intense
at all.
MR. BOEHNER: So to answer your
question there appears to be sufficient parking.
MR. CHAIRMAN: Any other questions?
MR. OSOWSKI: Do they recycle as much
as they can?
MR. PALUMBO: They do.
MR. CHAIRMAN: Does anyone care to
address this application? Seeing none we will move on.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------4P-05-14 Application of 2100BHTL Road, LLC, owner, for Conditional
Use Permit Approval to allow for an office and warehouse facility on
property located at 2100 Brighton Henrietta Town Line Road. All as
describe on application and plans on file.
MR. PALUMBO: Mike Palumbo, Flaum
Management for the owners of 2100 Brighton Henrietta Town Line Road.
MR. CHAIRMAN: This application does
not include the request for outdoor storage.

-11MR. PALUMBO: Originally they were
coming in for 2144 where they were going to need outdoor storage. This
space has more warehouse space than what they were getting at 2144. So
they will not need outdoor storage at this time. And actually after talking
to Rick this morning DeSteffano, I recalled the plan and said at any point
do you think you will need outdoor storage the response was this. They
are more seasonal than they are year round because who they supply to are
the Town of Brighton, municipalities, athletic fields, pools, they provide
PVC piping, sprinkler systems, Sprinkler heads and that type of stuff, that
is mostly wholesale and very little retail. So it is really more spring,
summer, and fall. In the wintertime they don’t do much but occasionally
they will get a truck load of PVC not a truck load but an order, so if they
need 20 feet of PVC that is the longest length that they will ever get. It is
very occasional he said where some municipality may order a section of
20 foot PVC and they may need to lay it outside. So at this point they
don’t have a need for it. In the future we may want to come back and ask
if they think it is going to start to become a demand. Rick said I should
probably mention that to you but at this point they don’t need outside
storage.
MR. CHAIRMAN: The issue of this being
a retail destination for homeowner is what?
MR. PALUMBO: They are 90 percent
wholesale. They don’t advertise. You probably never heard of them
before but if you go to the parks at Aquinas or any of the municipalities.
This is the company that sends out those products.
MR. CHAIRMAN: They don’t install they
are just a supplier?
MR. PALUMBO: Yes.
MS. CIVILETTI: Is there any storage of
solvents or anything like that?
MR. PALUMBO: No, not at all. This is all
hardware. And just so you know Rick had asked about truck traffic. They
get two to three deliveries a week, either UPS, Fedix, they will get an
occasional flat bed or tractor trailer. That is only if they get that order of
that 20 foot PVC but once again it is very rare but they do get it
occasionally. It doesn’t stick around. It gets loaded and goes right back
out and again it is not something they inventory. They are going to have

-12-

one to two employees. Their hours of operation are 8 to 5. It is a pretty
clean operation with low intensity.
MR. BOEHNER: Mike, one thing I wanted
to point out is the parking. When we approved it in 1990 parking was
based on 80 percent warehouse and 20 percent office use. This particular
user is a little bit high on the office than the warehouse. You have plenty
of parking right now because you have plenty of vacancies but as you go
along keep those numbers in your head because this building is short on
parking.
MR. PALUMBO: Keep in mind they are
going to have two employees and they are not going to have visitors.
MR. BOEHNER: Mine is more from a
Town calculation and remember that parking was done under a 1990 code
and that may help you or the new code may and Rick will help you with
that.
MR. PALUMBO: We are getting our hands
around this and I know that Week (phonetic) Management wasn’t as forth
coming as maybe they should have been but whatever we are here and we
want to be good neighbors.
MR. BOEHNER: That is appreciated.
Thank you.
MR. CHAIRMAN: This is a public hearing
does anyone care to address this application. If not we will move on.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------NEW BUSINESS
12P-NB1-13 Application of Max M. Farash Land Co., LLC, by Max M.
Farash Declaration to Trust, owner and FCJE Holdings, LLC, applicant
for Preliminary Site Plan Approval, Preliminary Subdivision Approval and
Preliminary EPOD (woodlot) Permit Approval to construct a driveway
serving a 59,800 sg building in the Town of Henrietta that will house three
private schools and to subdivide one lot into two lots on property located t
447 French Road. All as described on application and plans on file.
TABLED AT THE /DECEMBER 18, 2013 MEETING – PUBLIC

-13-

HEARING REMAINS OPEN- POSPONED TO THE MAY 21, 2014
MEETING AT APPLICANT’S REQUEST.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------MR. CHAIRMAN: The public hearings are
closed.
NEW BUSINESS (cont.)
4P-NB1-14 Application of Wood Christian Center, Inc., owner, and
Clinton Avenue South, agent, for Concept Review to subdivide one
property into two and construct a 12,000 +/- sf medical office building on
property located at 2090 South Clinton Avenue. All as described on
application and plans on file.
MR. CLARK: Good evening my name is John
Clark with DDS Companies and I am here tonight on behalf of Clinton
Avenue South, LLC. With me this evening is Mr. Chris LeStory who is
representative of Clinton Avenue South. The project is located at 2090
South Clinton Avenue and what is happening my client is working with
the Church right now to subdivide a portion of their property off so they
may build a new 12,000 sf medical use facility. We are talking about a
doctor’s office and they would have typical procedures outpatient
procedures that would take place there just like any doctor’s office. So
what the plan is now is at a conceptual level is we are thinking about
subdividing the property at Lot one which would be at the South Clinton
Avenue side which would be the western side of the property. It would be
approximately 2.8 acres and it would have a new facility of a 12,000 sf
building. Lot 2 would be the existing church and that would be on about
4.4 acres of land. Both properties as they are shown conceptually do
provide enough parking per code so there would be no need for any
variances as far as that goes.
MR. BOEHNER: Can I just ask you on Lot
1, you said it required 80 spaces plus four handicapped or is that number
of 80 include the four?
MR. CLARK: It includes the four
handicapped spaces.

-14-

MR. BOEHNER: So you have three extra
parking spaces?
MR. CLARK: Yes. So the utilities that are
on site right now are sanitary, gas, water electric, there is everything right
there. There might be some reorganization that has to take place in the
area of the new building but they are all right there. In fact the sanitary is
in a great spot and we can just hook right into it. There is going to be
some need for realignment of the water that goes back and services the
church and we have to run a new water line in for the new building but
everything is right there. Storm water right now moves from the east side
property to the west side. There are some ponds up near the road. Those
currently take on the culvert and the catch basins. Everything that is
drains over land gets there. So everything moving to the west that is
exactly what we are going to do we are going to maintain that drainage
pattern and utilize as much of the existing utilities as we can. Pipe all the
storm water toward the front. We are trying to leave that as green as
possible. We need to adhere to all the NYS DEC storm water
management regulations so we are going to need ample space to do that
and we feel that our concept plan achieves that.
As we are doing the subdivision we are going to
have to provide an access easement to Lot 2 which is where the church is.
So right now everybody enters the site on the northern side of the property
and there is a driveway there that leads right back to the church. There
was a previous traffic study done on this property and it’s much better to
have the access point directly across from Havens Road. That was before
now and the traffic study that we have done about 10 years ago allows for
a left hand turn lane in. It allows for a right hand turn out. So we think
that is a much better design. So the access easement would be over that
driveway and all the way back along the northern side of the property to
get back to the church. Really it is just lines on paper but certainly we
would have to provide that.
The previous project that was approved for this site
was a bit more dense and it was also two medical use facilities that totaled
about 24.000 sf I believe. So what we are doing with our application is
reducing it a bit. We feel we are making it a much less dense project with
one building and half the square footage that was also less parking. We
feel that overall just a bit less dense development for the area. The other
thing that we think that this offers is a good more open field. The previous
plan had two buildings up closer to the road not as much green space left

-15-

up in front all the parking went straight back to the church. So it seemed
to be a bit more dense than we liked so we changed it up a bit.
The other thing that we feel is this concept does it
offers a bit more buffer to the southern residents. We know there is some
residents over there and we want to keep their best interest in mind. So we
thing this does a bit better job previously it was all parking lot right next to
it and that’s noise and light, that’s traffic we feel it is not a great buffer.
Where now we have that building on that side and it may provide a bit
more buffer to the light spill, to the traffic that is going there, keep the
headlights off of those properties. So we feel that offers a bit of a plus in
that direction as well.
MR. BOEHNER: How many stories is this?
MR. CLARK: It’s a single story. We have
taken this plan and we have looked at it in a bunch of different way. We
went in and met with Town staff talked about different things and ended
up with the plan you see in front of you but we have looked at this thing a
number of different way and if I can pass out a number of different things
we have looked at. As we are here tonight for some feed back on our
concept and we wanted to get the Town involved as early as possible and
really taking a good hard look at it before we get into our advanced
design. I wanted to show a couple of things that we have looked at. Turn
to the third page I will start at the back and move forward in more of an L
shape building and we had it up in the north east corner and while that
alignment and that building structure works very well for our client it
wasn’t as acceptable to the church. The church is really looking for some
access visual access to the road. They don’t want a building necessarily
right between them and the road. They have had parishioners coming for
years and they travel along that northern property line to get back to the
church and they felt that this was a bit more cumbersome on that when
you drive into the development you see the doctor’s office and you don’t
see the church and then there is a bit of winding around that it has to have.
The other thing with this concept is that that’s
where a lot of the sanitary utilities are so there would be a cut off of the
sanitary utility that services the church right now so that would require
rerouting. It’s not that it couldn’t be done it’s just would add cost to the
project. And we felt the buffer along the residential side to the south just
wasn’t adequate again you are looking at parking and the way we had it
originally set up you were pulling in headlights first toward the southern

-16property lines and we knew that wouldn’t be acceptable. So we moved on
if you look at the lower right hand corner you will see some of the concept
numbers that we had. So we have looked at this a bunch of different ways
and I brought in just a snap shot of a few but then what we tried to do was
rotate the building about 90 degrees and bring it down to that southern
property line. And again we felt this offered a bit better buffer to that
southern property line but it didn’t achieve the visual access the church
was looking for. And it did also offer us a bit of relief from the
disturbance to the existing utilities actually this is probably the best place
for the building as far as existing utilities go but knowing that it wasn’t
satisfying the church. We looked at it in a different way which was if you
look back to the first page we had rotated the building 90 degrees again
pushed it up towards the front of the road but that still had that visual
barrier between the church and the road and it also was put in a place
where there would be significant restructuring of some of the utilities that
are there.
So we felt that again wasn’t a good buffer
against that southern property line. It just didn’t fit everybody’s needs.
So through the process of tinkering and getting word from the town and
input from the church and the clients we came up with the plan which we
prefer which was submitted to you. As I said we did meet with Town
staff, we some very productive meetings and it was suggested that we
come and speak to the Board on a conceptual level before we got going
with advanced plans and we certainly agree with that and appreciate the
time and the opportunity to get some feed back. So with that we would be
eager to get any feed back that you have and certainly answer any
questions you have.
MR. CHAIRMAN: John, you did see the
original plans for preliminary approval and I believe final approval I
believe in 2002 where there were two story with a smaller foot print?
MR. CLARK: Right.
MR. CHAIRMAN: On either side of the
entrance and the access was straight on up to the church. I just want to
remind the members I believe there were only two of us that were here
David Fader and myself. Do you want to start Jason.
MR. STINER: I know it is earlier on but it
would be nice to see some additional landscaping in front of the grass. I
know they want a line of sight in back but it would be nice to see some

-17-

trees in that medium section that you have in front of the parking lot, there
in the middle of the parking lot and the same thing to not have just grass .
MR. CLARK: Absolutely.
MR. STINER: But looking at these other
concepts and I am not familiar with the previous approved ones. South of
the church there appears to be along the property line a bunch of trees as a
buffer and I think we should try to do something similar to continue along
the south side of those building.
MR. CLARK: Yes, definitely it is our
attention to look at that and make sure that if there is a need to extend that
we certainly will. We want to be good neighbors over there so we were
looking at all those options and certainly a landscape plan when we get an
advanced design we will see a landscape plan done by a licensed architect
and I think you will be pleased with what we come up with.
MR. BOEHNER: John along that same
thought look at where your location is for the concrete pad for your
dumpster and your cooling tower’s generator. I don’t know if there can be
a different location but you are right next to that house. You might want to
talk with them too. That stuff is blocking doing any sort of screening.
MR. CLARK: We certainly will have to
look at that and make sure we have that laid out properly.
MR. CHAIRMAN: Tom?
MR. WARTH: I concur with the idea of
some kind of low landscaping in front of the western parking lot. I realize
the church is higher and you want to maintain sight of the church and I
also concur with landscaping on the south side of the building is there
pavement there now?
MR. CLARK: On the south side of the
building there is pavement there now and there may be a walk way for a
rear entrance but the pavement would be removed and it would be grass
but we may have a walk way for a separate entrance for the doctors.
MR. WARTH: This is one story?

-18-

MR. CLARK: Yes.
MR. WARTH: That is all I have.
MR. FADER: I like this better than the one
you had in 2002. I agree with Ramsey on the dumpster I would push that
away and I would try to push that back.
MR. CHAIRMAN: The smaller building
foot print is two story and I think it may satisfy the occupation better. We
do like the proposed building versus the L shape. We would encourage
you to look at building to the other side of the site where you just flip it
and see if that works and put the back of this new building to other
buildings and we know it would be more commercial looking.
MR. CLARK: The one issue with that is we
have looked at that and there is sanitary right here and that is our biggest
concern is having to make all that drainage work and preliminarily I have
looked at it and it would be very difficult to reconnect . I am not saying it
is completely impossible but –
MR. CHAIRMAN: If you have looked at it
that is fine. And if you were to just take a quick look at moving the
building down and flipping those six parking spaces up to the east side of
the building just so your view across the storm water area is just a building
and not across the parking - pull that building down and flip that parking.
MR. CLARK: We will certainly look at
that.
MR. CHAIRMAN: The dumpsters in
particular and the cooling towers are near residences and are tuff when
they come in and back up to the dumpster at 5:30 a.m.
MR. CLARK: I am hearing that real loud.
MS. CIVILETTI: I agree that it works the
best at the opposite end that you presented. I don’t have much to add just
picking up on Bill’s comments on the topography a little bit .

-19-

MR. CLARK: We can definitely make the
grading here work. The two story option doesn’t really work for my client
with the operation that they have it is difficult.
MR. OSOWSKI: I really like Bill’s idea
being on the other side. I assume this would have normal hours of
operation and I know the back of that church there is a gymnasium and
what not goes on there in the evening.
MR. CLARK: YES.
MS. WRIGHT: Do you have a plan for
signage yet is there going to be one kind for both the church and the
medical office.
MR. CLARK: Currently there is a sign out
at the road right now which they would like to maintain that sign and there
is some logistics about it though because it will not be on the church’s
property any more but they are very interested in keeping that sign in a
similar area up near the road. So that part of this has to be seen how that
gets worked out. I know Rick was looking into that to see how the town
regulations were for a sign in that area pre-existing but now it is getting
moved because it is not on the same property any more so it is certainly
something we have to look at.
MR. BOEHNER: So the office sign will
have a building face sign?
MR. LESTORTI: Chris Lestorti. We
haven’t spoken with the church but the main concern is to keep the Jubilee
name
MS. WRIGHT: Is the church on board with
this plan conceptually?
MR. CLARK: Yes, they like this plan.
MR. CHAIRMAN: The architecture in
general is it typical of what we see up and down South Clinton.

-20-

MR. CLARK: I would have to say yes. I
have seen some of the rendering and it does look very typical of the
different doctor offices so it certainly won’t be out of character.
MR. CHAIRMAN: What type of doctor’s
office is this?
MR. CLARK: Gastroenterology and they
are currently located at Clinton Crossing.
MR. CHAIRMAN: Will you include you
architectural elevations in your application.
MR. CLARK: Sure.
MS. WRIGHT: One quick question you
mentioned the easement for ingress and egress who will maintain
the road way will it be the medical practice.
MR. CLARK: There will be an agreement
between the two properties, I am sure they will split the cost or
maybe the medical office will say we will take it on. That will be
between them they will have to figure out who will maintain the
road way. I am sure it will be a split to share the costs.
MR. CHAIRMAN: I ask that you take a
look at those minor ideas and encourage you to pursue your
preliminary application.
MR. CLARK: Great, thank you.
MR. BOEHNER: Have you talked to
Monroe County DOT?
MR. CLARK: We haven’t talked to them. I
know we talked about doing that and we haven’t proceeded with
that but certainly we will.
MR. BOEHNER: Do you have to run the
water line?

-21-

MR. CLARK: We will have to run a new
water line.
MR. BOEHNER: And you have the main
water line going down South Clinton?
MR. CLARK: Yes.
MR. STINER: I just want to thank you for
bringing in the concepts and it helps us see your views.
MR. CLARK: That was helpful advice from
Ramsey to bring those in to share and it makes sense we think this
is an asset to the community and to my client as well and we want
to make the process as smooth as possible. Thank you very much
we appreciate your input.
MR. BOEHNER: Thank you.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------PRESENTATION
NONE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------COMMUNICATIONS
Letter from Michael Palumbo, Flaum Management Company, Inc.
dated March 24, 3014, withdrawing application 4P-03-14
Letter from Betsy Brugg, Woods, Oviatt, Gilman, LLP, dated April
4, 2014 requesting postponement of application 1A-04-14.
Letter from Joseph O’Donnell, dated April 8, 2014, requesting
postponement of application 1P-01-14.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------PETITIONS
NONE

-22-

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------4P-01-14 Application of Corporate Woods of Brighton owner and Ellie
Phillips (Phillips European Restaurant), lessee, for Conditional Use Permit
Approval to allow for outdoor dining in association with an existing
restaurant on property located at 26 Corporate Woods. All as described on
application and plans on file.
MS. CIVILETTI: I move to close the public
hearing for application 4P-01-14.
MR. FADER: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED.
MS. CIVILETTI: I move the Planning
Board approves the application based on the testimony given, plans
submitted and with the following Determination of Significance and
Conditions:
DETERMINATION OF SIGNIFICANCE
I move that the Planning Board of the Town of Brighton declares itself to
be lead agency under the State of New York Environmental Quality
Review Act. After considering the action contemplated, the Planning
Board finds it to be an Unlisted Action. Upon review of the
Environmental Assessment form, the application and materials submitted,
and the criteria for determining significance pursuant to the SEQRA the
Planning Board finds that the proposed action will not have a significant
impact on the environment. The Planning Board adopts the negative
declaration prepared by Town Staff.
CONDITIONS:
1. The outdoor dining area shall be limited to 28 seats, and the total
seating for the restaurant including inside and outdoor, shall not
exceed 128 seats without further approval.
2. The outdoor dining area shall not exceed 750 square feet in area.
3. All requirements of Section 203-84.B(4) – Outdoor Dining Facilities –
of the Comprehensive Development Regulations shall be met.

-23-

4. The outdoor dining area shall be used only for dining by seated
patrons. No live or broadcast music or other entertainment, no
outdoor food preparation and no bard for service of alcohol shall be
allowed in conjunction with the outdoor dining facility.
5. during each day of operation of the outdoor dining area, a restaurant
employee shall regularly patrol the area within 300 feet of the outdoor
dining area to collect any trash or litter which may have been
generated by the restaurant operations or customers to the extent that
such a patrol can be done safely and that permission is obtained from
neighboring property owners.
6. The outdoor dining area shall only be operated during the hours of
operation of the associated restaurant.
7. The applicant shall ensure that any proposed planters and plantings are
maintained in a neat and attractive condition.
8. All proposed lighting shall be designed to illuminate only the dining
area and to eliminate light overflow onto adjacent properties. Lighting
not necessary for security purposes shall be placed on automatic
timing devices which allow illumination to commence no earlier than
½ hour after the close of business.
9. The applicant shall ensure that the outdoor dining area does not
impede pedestrian passage. A new sidewalk shall be constructed
along the driveway to connect the front and back sidewalks, as
presented.
10. The entire sidewalk shall be removed and any disturbance outside the
fence line shall be restored to lawn.
MR. WARTH: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------4P-02-14 Application of Mike Donoghue, owner, and Janine Wasley (
Avvino Restaurant). Lessee, for Conditional Use Permit Approval to allow
for outdoor dining in association with an existing restaurant on property

-24-

located at 2541 Monroe Avenue. All as described on application and
plans on file.
MR. FADER: I move to close the public
hearing of application 4P-02-14.
MS. CIVILETTI: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION UNANIMOUSY CARRIED
MS. WRIGHT: I move the Planning Board
approves the application based on the testimony given, plans submitted,
and with the following Determination of Significance and conditions:
DETERMINATION OF SIGNIFICANCE
I move that the Planning Board of the Town of Brighton declares itself to
be lead agency under the State of New York Environmental Quality
Review Act. After considering the action contemplated, the Planning
Board finds it to be an Unlisted Action. Upon review of the
Environmental Assessment form, the application and materials submitted,
and the criteria for determining significance pursuant to the SEQRA the
Planning Board finds that the proposed action will not have a significant
impact on the environment. The Planning Board adopts the negative
declaration prepared by Town Staff.
CONDITIONS:
1. The outdoor dining area shall comply with the most current Building
and Fire Cods of New York State. The outdoor dining area appears to
create a potential obstruction for people exiting the stairwell. The
applicant’s architect shall verify that the proposed outdoor dining area
and building meet all requirements of the New York State Building
Code. A building permit must be obtained.
2. All conditions of Conditional Use Permit application 10O-3-12 shall
remain in effect.
3. The outdoor dining area appears to create a potential obstruction for
people exiting the stairwell. All requirements of the New York State
Building Code shall be met.

-25-

4. The submitted site plan is not to scale and it could not be verified that
all setback requires are met. A site plan shall be submitted that
verifies that the awning and outdoor dining will meet all setback
requirements.
5. Architectural Review Board approval is needed for the new door and
proposed awning.
6. Meet all requirements of the Town of Brighton’s Department of Public
Works.
7. All Town code shall be met that relate directly or indirectly to the
applicant’s request.
8. All lighting for the outdoor dining shall be low in height and intensity.
9. All outstanding comments and concerns of the Fire Marshal shall be
addressed.
10. Precautions shall be taken to prevent noise generated by the business
from becoming a nuisance for neighboring properties.
11. All BF-1 zoning district requirements, all requirements of #207-14.1
(waste container & grease/oil container standards) and all requirements
of 207-14.2 (supplemental rest. Regs) shall me met.
12. All requirements of Section 203-74.B(3) and (4) shall be met.
13. The subject restaurant was approved under Conditional Use Permit
application 10P-03-12 Based on this approval the total seating inside
the restaurant is limited to 64 seats.
14. The seating capacity of the outdoor dining area is limited to a
maximum of 14 seats.
15. The outdoor dining area shall only be used between the hours of 5:00
pm to 11:00 pm.
16. The outdoor dining area shall be used only for dining by seated
patrons. No live or broadcast music or other entertainment, no outdoor
food preparation and no bars for service of alcohol shall be allowed to
conjunction with the outdoor dining facility.

-26-

17. During each day of operation of the outdoor dining area, a restaurant
employee shall regularly patrol the area within 300 feet of the outdoor
dining area to collect any trash or litter which may have been
generated by the restaurant operations or customers , to the extent that
such a patrol can de done safely and that permission is obtained from
the neighboring property owners where necessary.
18. The applicant shall ensure that any proposed planters and plantings
are maintained in a neat and attractive conditions.
19. All proposed lighting shall be designed to illuminate only the dining
area and to eliminate light overflow onto adjacent properties. Lighting
not necessary for security purposes shall be placed on automatic
timing devices which allow illumination to commence no earlier than
½ hour before the business is open to the public and to terminate no
later than ½ hour after the close of business.
20. The Planning Board requires that this conditional use permit be
periodically renewed after application notice and a public hearing to
determine if the conditions of the approval have been complied with or
whether conditions have changed since the original conditional use
permit was granted. This conditional use permit must be renewed
within one year of approval.
21. The closest residential use shall be within 150 feet.
MR. FADER: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------4P-04-14 Application of 2144 BHTL Road, LLC, owner for Conditional
Use Permit Approval to allow for an office, production and printing
facility on property located at 2144 BHTL Road. All as described on
application and plans on file.
MR. FADER: I move to close the public hearing on
application 4P-04-14.
MR. WARTH: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED

-27MR. WARTH: I move the Planning Board
approves the application based on the testimony given, plans submitted
and with the following Determination of Significance and Conditions:
DETERMINATION OF SIGNIFICANCE
I move that the Planning Board of the Town of Brighton declares itself to
be lead agency under the State of New York Environmental Quality
Review Act. After considering the action contemplated, the Planning
Board finds it to be an Unlisted Action. Upon review of the
Environmental Assessment form, the application and materials submitted,
and the criteria for determining significance pursuant to the SEQRA the
Planning Board finds that the proposed action will not have a significant
impact on the environment. The Planning Board adopts the negative
declaration prepared by Town Staff.
CONDITIONS
1. An Operational Permit shall be obtained from the Town of Brighton’s
Fire Marshal ( Chris Roth 585-784-5220)/
2. The entire building shall comply with the New York State Uniform
Fire Prevention and Building Code and shall comply with all
occupancy limits as set by the Brighton Fire Marshal. All required
permits shall be obtained.
3. All Town codes shall be met that relate directly or indirectly to the
applicant’s request.
4. The ratio of office area to warehouse area shall be regulated by the
existing parking lot’s ability to meet the parking requirements for
office use and warehouse use of the Brighton Town’s Code. Any
additional parking areas shall be subject to site plan approval.
5. Meet all requirements of the Town of Brighton’s Department of Public
Works.
6. Outside storage and display shall be prohibited without further
approval.
7. Any discharge to the sanitary sewer system shall meet all town,
county, state and federal requirements.

-28-

8. All Monroe County comments shall be addressed.
9. All comments and requirements Town Building Inspector and Fire
Marshal shall be addressed.
10. Any proposed signage shall obtain all required approvals.
MS. CIVILETTI: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------4P-05-14 Application of 2100BHTL Road, LLC, owner, for Conditional
Use Permit Approval to allow for an office and warehouse facility on
property located at 2100 Brighton Henrietta Town Line Road. All as
describe on application and plans on file.
MR. WARTH: I move to close the public hearing
on application 4P-05-14.
MS. CIVILETTI: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED
MR. FADER: I move the Planning Board approves
the application based on the testimony given, plans submitted and with the
following Determination of Significance and Conditions:
DETERMINATION OF SIGNIFICANCE
I move that the Planning Board of the Town of Brighton declares itself to
be lead agency under the State of New York Environmental Quality
Review Act. After considering the action contemplated, the Planning
Board finds it to be an Unlisted Action. Upon review of the
Environmental Assessment form, the application and materials submitted,
and the criteria for determining significance pursuant to the SEQRA the
Planning Board finds that the proposed action will not have a significant
impact on the environment. The Planning Board adopts the negative
declaration prepared by Town Staff.
CONDITIONS

-29-

1

An Operational Permit shall be obtained from the Town of Brighton’s
Fire Marshal ( Chris Roth 585-784-5220)/

2. The entire building shall comply with the New York State Uniform
Fire Prevention and Building Code and shall comply with all
occupancy limits as set by the Brighton Fire Marshal. All required
permits shall be obtained.
3

All Town codes shall be met that relate directly or indirectly to the
applicant’s request.

4

The ratio of office area to warehouse area shall be regulated by the
existing parking lot’s ability to meet the parking requirements for
office use and warehouse use of the Brighton Town’s Code. Any
additional parking areas shall be subject to site plan approval.
Applicant should be aware that the building was originally approved
\to be 80 % warehouse and 20% office use.

5

Meet all requirements of the Town of Brighton’s Department of Public
Works.

6

Outside storage and display shall be prohibited without further
approval.

7

Any discharge to the sanitary sewer system shall meet all town,
county, state and federal requirements.

8

All Monroe County comments shall be addressed.

9

All comments and requirements Town Building Inspector and Fire
Marshal shall be addressed.

10 Any proposed signage shall obtain all required approvals.
MS. CIVILETTI: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------OLD BUSINESS

-30-

The University of Rochester – IPD Rezoning Supplemental Draft Generic
Environmental Impact Statement comment letter.
MR. CHAIRMAN: I direct the Town
Planner to send the letter to the Town Board with corrections.
MS. CIVILETTI: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED
*****

SIGNS
1310 TOPS Pharmacy Deli Bakery Café for a building face sign at 1900
South Clinton Avenue
CONDITIONS
1. All required variances shall be obtained.
2. The new location of the sign components (vs architectural elevations
previously reviewed ) alter the visual character of the façade
previously reviewed.
1324 Dunkin Donuts for a building face sign at 2740 West Henrietta
Road.
1325 Ontario Hearing Center for a building face sign at 2210 Monroe
Avenue.
1326 MCC Economic & Workforce Development Center for a Building
face sign at 1057 East Henrietta Road.
1. Lighting shall be changed to down lights that illuminate the
signs only. Flood lights are not appropriate for lighting the
sign.
OLD BUSINESS
1309

Monster Videogame for a building face sign a 2858
West Henrietta Road.

TABLED FOR THE FOLLOWING
1. All required variances shall be obtained.
2. The spacing between the lines shall be reduced.
3. The sign should be vertically centered within the sign band.
MR. CHAIRMAN: I move to
approve signs 1310, 1324, 1325 1326 with conditions as stated.
Sign 1309 is tabled.
MS. CIVILETTI: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED

assembly then it would be just an office use and that would be a permitted use
given that it is an assembly use it is also a conditional use.
MR. CHAIRMAN: So two firms occupy this entire
building.
MR. BEACH: Yes, that is correct.
MR. CHAIRMAN: Any proposed improvements to
the site any building signage, any lighting or any outdoor things.
MR. BEACH: We will be putting a JCA logo on
the front and we will work through the planning process for that. The building
does not currently have sprinklers so we will be tapping into the Monroe County
Borderline which is right there and bringing a main line it . Those are the only
two exterior additions.
MR. BOEHNER: So you have had an architect
look at the building to make sure what you are doing will meet the NYS Building
Code?

-7-

MR. BEACH: Yes. We have and we will also be
working with the Fire Marshal.
MR. CHAIRMAN: So you will be applying for
building permits?
MR. BEACH: Yes.
MR. CHAIRMAN: This is a public hearing does
anyone wish to address this application? Hearing none we will move on. Thank
you.

3P-02-14 Application of Anthony J. Costello and Son Development, owner, for
Site Plan Modification for the construction of a 4,464 +/- sf single family house
with a 1,374 sf attached garage on property located at 100 Pendelton Hill (The
Reserve – Lot W10). All as described on application and plans on file.
MR. GOLDMAN: Good evening Mr. Chairman
and Members of the Board, my name is Jerry Goldman and I am the attorney and
agent for Anthony J. Costello and Son’s Development who is the developer of
The Reserve project located off South Clinton Avenue south of the IPOD - 90
expressway and north of the canal. With me this evening are John Stapleton from
Marathon Engineering who is the project engineer as well as Todd Brady who
works at the Costello office and has been involved in the development and sales
related to The Reserve. We are her this evening for a Site Plan Modification if
you will, for a lot which is located as shown on the plan at the eastern end of
Pendleton Hill . It is depicted at Lot W 10. That particular lot is being developed
for a very nice upscale home and we are here primarily this evening because
while when we obtained initial subdivision approval there were plans which
depicted building lots where the houses would be as well as the grading and the
like. The house which now is being proposed is one of the outside bounds of the
building envelope that was depicted on the plans. But it should be pointed out
that in all ways the house which is being proposed is in conformance with all of
the bulk requirements for The Reserve and does not require any variances. This
matter will be going in front of the Architectural Review Board for their review of
the elevations on the site itself. As I pointed out there was some modifications
with regard to grading which has occurred as well as location on the site of the
structure. It is pretty straight forward from our view. You can see on this
particular plan that this is the box that was depicted on the site plan that was
approved. The house is extending out a little bit in a couple of different directions
-8-

on the site. But that again is within the code requirements within the incentive
zoning requirements as set forth by the Town Board. John I don’t know if you
want to address the Board or answer any questions the Board might have.
MR. BOEHNER: John, if you could describe the
changes in grading especially as it approaches the rear yard lot line.
MR. STAPLETON: Sure. John Stapleton from
Marathon Engineering. As Jerry pointed out these were custom homes so we
obviously don’t know what the size of the house or the outline of the house is
going to be until an actual customer comes to us and says they want to construct
this which is the point that we are at now. As far as elevations go the finished pad
is the same finished pad elevation which was depicted on the approved grading
plan. When I say finished pad we refer to that as meaning the garage floor
elevation which is typically the ground in front of the house. We have also
indicated what the finished floor is which is actually the floor that you walk on
which is about 16 inches or two courses above the garage floor. From a grading
standpoint on the original approved plan we have partial walk out for this lot.
During construction and mass grading of the overall project we were looking for
places to waste some spoil which was some excess cut that we had. So we had
talked with the Town Engineer and we had killed the back yard of that and that
was done during the mass grading and I believe Mr. Guyon was in agreement
with that slight change. So we elevations at each corner for the house and we
also tried to give it a more level rear yard or a usable rear yard for this residence.
So coming out of the house for the first 30 feet it falls just under a foot and then
we go on a one on five slope beyond that to the property line. Along the north
and south property lines we have kept the grades the same there is a storm sewer
easement that and a corresponding storm sewer that goes along the south property
line and the grades in that area over the pipe have not been changed. Did I answer
your question?
MR. BOEHNER: On this with the grading will you
have four feet of cover over the Town utilities.
MR. STAPLETON: Yes, nothing has changed with
regard to that.
MR. BOEHNER: Just the last thing on the grading
in the packet we did not get the verification of the structure meeting our height
requirements. You say it is going to be 30 feet and I couldn’t tell from these

-9-

drawings to insure that it is going to meet the height. Do you think any of these
points are going to change after the architect fine tunes his elevations.
MR. STAPLETON: No, we coordinated that with
the architect.
MR. BOEHNER: You don’t see a problem with
meeting the 30 feet or any changes to the grading as a result of that?
MR. STAPLETON: I do not. We have confirmed
with Fehee that they will be below the 30 foot maximum. I don’t see any reason
for anything to change.
MR. BOEHNER: Okay and if it did it would
probably be slight.
MR. STAPLETON: Very slight. I don’t see any
reason for it to change at all.
MR. CHAIRMAN: I think one of the things we
would like to do is see if there is a way to – you don’t necessarily have to come
back here for each of these homes but I do want to touch on some of the things
that the Board felt important and we all felt it was important in developing this
project the smaller lot sizes we all embraced as a good thing to open spaces and
also a good thing that the front setback was reduced so there is more of a back
yard available to the owners for their use. You are getting away from that large
front setback that we have in a lot of subdivisions. So although this does fit
within the setbacks technically complies with everything we have laid out over
the years. We frankly see looking from our side, the public grounds and this isn’t
necessarily inconsistent with what we all thought. To tell the difference from a 25
foot to a 45 foot setback might be pretty hard. But as you are driving down the
road and you start to fill out the rest of those home the buildings coming up and
form a street wall that is something we thought was important but as we
understand on the radius of the cul de sac that is hard to tell. You may find
yourselves having a more difficult time with the people buying the adjacent lots if
they start doing funny things with those setbacks. So I think we are going to try
and look at some things as we do our deliberations. Generally speaking do you
think that that 25 foot setback will make those lots square and will it be any easier
for an architect to design the fit as originally proposed back then as the cul de sac
side. Is that a fair statement?

-10-

MR. GOLDMAN: I think it is something we would
have to review a 25 foot setback does allow for one car basically and a driveway
off of the right of way. 45 foot would allow for a two car depth so that becomes
the question that we would have to deal with relative to that. It’s unusually for us
in a suburban context to be talking about maximum setback as opposed to
minimum and you know there is always a question about uniformity being desired
or whether some off set has some value also. For anyone who is coming in
afterwards I think that they will know certainly if they want to do and I can tell
you in custom homes there is a lot of due diligence on the part of the buyers. This
is going to be a house in excess of a million dollars in value which is going up
over here and the negotiations on this and the review was substantial in terms of
the amount of time. I think that they will look and will want to see what the
adjacent property are going to look like. So to that extent I think that the market
will kind of define how that is going to work and certainly if you want some
guidance from us as to where we think we are going to be I think we will know
that probably much better as we get one or two more sales in that area. The cul de
sac itself is going to be a challenge.
MR. CHAIRMAN: I don’t want this Board playing
referee.
MR. BOEHNER: That is my concern, it is not
about the person that is buying it. If someone comes in and says I am buying the
house and you are at the 45 foot setback and I am putting it at 20. Then you have
a house just outside your picture window and that is the kind of stuff that
concerns me.
MR. GOLDMAN: I think if you wind up coming
back here you could wind up being a referee in some cases. The fact of the matter
is I don’t know whether this particular buyer has thought about it but certainly is
something that could be negotiated if someone had a concern with regard to that.
If someone were to say Mr. Costello, I ‘m willing to buy this house and I am
willing to do it right now except for the lawyers in the room we want to have
some sort of deed restrictions to say what is going to happen with the lots next to
us. You know if someone is that concerned about it they really can address that at
the time they enter into the contract. This particular buyer could have as well but
I don’t think it was of a particular concern to this buyer.
MR. STAPLETON: The minimum setback for this
neighborhood is 20 feet. The box that we showed on the cul de sac we had
setback to 30 feet and than as it is customary to do around the cul de sac I just
want to point out to this Board along the north side as it comes out to the main
-11-

road we are abutting the park and with restrictions that this Board asked for so we
won’t have the depth of lot heading west that we are afforded in the cul de sac lot.
So I believe that most of those houses at least on the north side of the street are
going to be closer to the minimum front setback than what you are seeing on the
cul de sac.
MR. GOLDMAN: All of that having been said, I
do want to say this before I forget. I do appreciate the Board’s consideration in
this regard and the reason why is that we have a very volatile market place with
people and if you tell them we have to do this and this they could be moving onto
something else and the time lag is always a concern. So if there is a way to
stream line the process we certainly would welcome that.
MR. BOEHNER: On the record, I do want to say
my comfort level in doing administrative reviews on this project is not there
unless it is very close to what was approved it would be my feeling administrative
review is not appropriate. I certainly do not want to deviate from this plan that
much. Just for the record. I will do as the Board finds I just wanted to say that
for the record.
MR. CHAIRMAN: Okay, is there any other
discussions, you talked about the grading. Now from the original you said that
was a partial walk out and the windows the lower windows in the basement?
MR. STAPLETON: Yes, we had the same
elevation and we are dropping the grade along the back and if they wanted some
daylight windows for their basement they could but it was not intended to be a
full walk out rather to drop it and have a partial walk out.
MR. CHAIRMAN: And this is probably window
wells at this point. Okay any questions ?
MS. CIVILETTI: Are there any plans for a
generator?
MR. BOEHNER: Or an air conditioner not shown
on the plans?
MR. BRADY: Scott Brady for marketing and sales.
At this time there is no plans for a generator. There will be air conditioning in the
home.
-12-

MR. BOEHNER: Air conditioning can be side or
rear and it has to be screened.
MR. CHAIRMAN: Is there anybody in the audience
who cares to address this application. There being none we will move on. That
is it for the public hearings tonight. Let’s do decisions. Then the DEIS.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------12P-NB1-13 Application of Max M. Farash Land Co., LLC, by Max M. Farash
Declaration to Trust, owner and FCJE Holdings, LLC, applicant for Preliminary
Site Plan Approval, Preliminary Subdivision Approval and Preliminary EPOD
(woodlot) Permit Approval to construct a driveway serving a 59,800 sg building
in the Town of Henrietta that will house three private schools and to subdivide
one lot into two lots on property located t 447 French Road. All as described on
application and plans on file. TABLED AT THE /DECEMBER 18, 2013
MEETING – PUBLIC HEARING REMAINS OPEN- POSPONED TO THE
APRIL 10, 2014 MEETING AT APPLICANT’S REQUEST.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------1P-02-14
Application of Le Thi Be Walters, owner and Monroe Pittsford
Development, contract vendee, for Final Site Plan Approval, Final Conditional
Use Permit Approval and Demolition Review and Approval to raze a commercial
building and construct a 2,039 +/- sf restaurant and drive thru, outdoor dining and
extended hours (5:00 a.m. 12:00 midnight) on property located at 277 Monroe
Avenue. All as described on application and plans on file. TABLED AT THE
JANUARY 15, 2014 MEETING –PUBLIC HEARING REMAINS OPEN.
11P-NB1-13 Application of Le Thi Be Walters, owner and Monroe Pittsford
Development, contract vendee, for Preliminary Site Plan Approval, Preliminary
Conditional Use Permit Approval and Demolition Review and Approval to raze a
Commercial Building and construct a 1, 900+/- sf restaurant with drive thru and
outdoor dining on property located at 2787 Monroe Avenue. All as described on
application and plans on file. TABLED AT THE JANUARY 15, 2014 MEETING
–PUBLIC HEARING REMAINS OPEN
MR. FADER: I move to close the hearings on
application 1P-02-14 and 11P-NB1-13.
MS. CIVILETTI: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE

MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED
-13-

MR. FADER: I mover that the Planning Board
adopts the following findings based on the application submitted, testimony
presented, and the determinations, comments, and recommendations of the
Historic Preservation Commission, Architectural Review Board and Conservation
Board as well as the Determination of Significance.
DETERMINATION OF SIGNIFICANCE
I move that the Planning Board of the Town of Brighton declares itself to
be lead agency under the State of New York Environmental Quality
Review Act. After considering the action contemplated, the Planning
Board finds it to be an Unlisted Action. Upon review of the
Environmental Assessment form, the application and materials submitted,
and the criteria for determining significance pursuant to the SEQRA the
Planning Board finds that the proposed action will not have a significant
impact on the environment.
DEMOLITION FINDINGS.
1. The existing building , if currently designated as a landmark, has received
required approvals from the Historic Preservation Commission, and if not
currently designated has been found by the Commission not to be a candidate
for designation by the Historic Preservation Commission as a landmark.
2. The Architectural Review Board and Conservation Board have reviewed the
project per the requirements of this article and their determinations and
recommendations have been considered.
3. The project is consistent with the Brighton Comprehensive Plan.
4. The project meets all Town zoning requirements, or a variance has been
granted by the Brighton Zoning Board of Appeals.
5. The Brighton Department of Public Works has approved the proposed grading
plan for the project.
6. The project complies with the requirements of the Town’s regulations
regarding trees.
7. A restoration/landscaping plan has been approved by the Planning Board.

-14-

8. The project will comply with the requirements of NYSDOL, Code Rule 56
regarding asbestos control and Chapter 91 of the Code of the Town of
Brighton, Lead-Based Paint Removal. In addition to any other requirements
of Code Rule 56, the project will comply with Section 56-3,4(a)(2) regarding
on site maintenance of a project record, Section 56-3.6(a) regarding 10 Day
Notice requirements for residential and business occupants, the licensing
requirements of Section 56-3 and asbestos survey and removal requirements
of Section 56-5.
9. The project will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be
detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of persons residing or
working in the neighborhoods and will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to propert or improvements in the neighborhood.
10. The project does not have a significant negative impact or affordable housing
within the Town.
MS. CIVILETTI: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE

MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED

MR. FADER: I move to approve as presented on
the testimony given, plans submitted, and with the following conditions:
CONDITIONS:
1. Property owner/applicant shall obtain written documentation from
neighboring property owner to the north/northwest for permission to remove
and replace existing curb/pavement on their property as part of the new wall
construction. Documentation must be in place and provided to the Town
before construction begins.
2. The property owner shall be responsible for ensuring that #102-3(B)(8) of the
Brighton Town Code, “ No person shall operate refuse collecting equipemtn
between the hours of 10 p.m. and 7 a.m. “ is complied with.
3. The north side setback shall be calculated to the closest point of the building,
the entry roof. The entry roof shall be shown on the site plan.
4. References to the wood bollard/guide rail shall call it that instead of just
“bollard”.
-15-

5. An Operational Permit shall be obtained from the Town of Brighton Fire
Marshal(Chris Roth, 585-784-5220).
6. The entire building shall comply with themost current Building & Fire Codes
of New York State.
7. Prior to issuance of any building permits, all plans for utility and storm water
control systems must be reviewed and have been given approval by
appropriate authorities Prior to any occupancy, work proposed on the
approved plans shall have been completed to a degree satisfactory to the
appropriate authorities.
8. When determined necessary by the Town of Brighton, sidewalks shall be
constructed on the site meeting specific Town standards at the expense of the
property owner.
9. Meet all requirements of the Town of Brighton’s Department of Public
Works.
10. All Town code shall be met that relate directly or indirectly to the applicant’s
request.
11. The project and its construction entrance shall meet the New York State
Standards and Specifications for Erosion and Sediment Control.
12. The contractor shall designate a member of his or her firm to be responsible
to monitor erosion control, erosion control structures, tree protection and
preservation throughout construction.
13. All trees to be saved shall be protected with orange construction fencing
placed at the drip line or a distance greater than the drip line. Trees shall be
pruned, watered and fertilized prior to , during and after construction.
Materials and equipment storage shall not be allowed in fenced areas.
14. Maintenance of landscape plantings shall be guaranteed for three years.
15. Any contractor or individual involved in the planting, maintenance or
removal of trees shall comply with the requirements of the town”s Excavation
and Clearing ( Chapter 66). Trees (Chapter 175) and other pertinent
regulations and shall be registered and shall carry insurance as required by
Chapter 175 of the Comprehensive Development Regulations.
-16-

16. The parking lot shall be striped as per the requirements of the Brighton
Comprehensive Development Regulations.
17. All outstanding Site Plan comments and concerns of the Town Engineer and
Fire Marshal shall be addressed.
18Fire hydrants shall be fully operational prior to and during construction of the
building.
19 All County Development Review Comments shall be addressed.
20 Erosion control measures shall be in place prior to site disturbance.
21 A letter of credit shall be provided to cover certain aspects of the project,
including, but not limited to demolition, landscaping, stormwater mitigation,
infrastructure and erosion control The applicant’s engineer shall prepare an
itemized estimate of the scope of the project as a basis for the letter of credit.
22 Asbestos was found and will need to be abated as required by law prior to
issuance of a demolition permit. The project will comply with the
requirements of NYSDOL, Code Rule 56 regarding asbestos control and
Chapter 91 of the Code of the Town of Brighton, Lead-Based Paint Removal.
In addition to any other requirements of Code Rule 56, the project will comply
with Section 56-3,4(a)(2) regarding on site maintenance of a project record,
Section 56-3.6(a) regarding 10 Day Notice requirements for residential and
business occupants, the licensing requirements of Section 56-3 and asbestos
survey and removal requirements of Section 56-5.
23 The proposed building shall be sprinklered in accordance with Town
requirements.
24 Erosion control measures shall be in place prior to site disturbance.
25 The applicant shall review the site plan, elevations and floor plans to ensure
that the areas and dimensions provided on those plans agree with one another.
Elevation drawings showing the height of the structure in relationship to
proposed grade as shown on the approved site plan shall be submitted. Any
changes to plans shall be reviewed by the Building and Planning Department
and may require Planning Board approval.

-17-

26 The location of any proposed generators shall be shown on the site plans. All
requirements of the Comprehensive Development Regulations shall be met or
a variance shall be obtained from the Zoning Board of Appeals.
27 The location of the HVAC shall be shown on the site plan.
28 All comments and concerns of the Evert Garcia as contained in the attached
memo dated February 10, 2014 to Ramsey Boehner shall be addressed.
29 In the event that the NYSDOT does not complete the construction of the
proposed sidewalk the applicant will be required to install a sidewalk along
the frontage of the property and provide the appropriate easement. The cost of
this sidewalk must be included in the Letter of Credit.
30 Applicant shall verify and plans shall show, that retaining walls and fences
meet height requirements. Fencing and retaining walls shall not exceed a
height of 3 and one half feet from grade in any front yard or 6 and a half feet
from grade in any side or rear yard.
31 A stabilized construction entrance and equipment/materials stockpile areas
should be shown on plans. Precautions should be taken to eliminate the
discharge of petroleume and other pollutants.
32 All demolition debris and any dumpsters shall be removed from the site on a
timely basis following demolition. All demolition debris must be removed
from the site and disposed of in an approved landfill.
33 All requirements of Section 203-84bbbbb.B.3 ( restaurant regulations), 20714.1 (waste containers and grease/oil container standards) 20714.2(supplemental restaurant regulations) and 207-.14.3 ( drive –through
standards) as well as any other pertinent sections of the code, shall be met
included in these requirements is that “a minimum of one aesthetically
acceptable trash receptacle shall be provided on site adjacent to each driveway
exit. At least one additional aesthetically acceptable, onsite outdoor trash
receptacle shall be provide for every 10 required parking spaces” Also
included is that. Any use providing food capable of being immediately
consumed which is served I disposable packaging shall have at least one
aesthetically acceptable, onsite outdoor covered trash receptacle for patron use
located near the primary entrance…’ These requirements along with the other
requirements of those sections, should be addressed.

-18-

34 The drive-thru speaker is required to be less that 50 dba at four feet from the
speaker and not audible above daytime ambient noise levels at the property
line.
35 All lighting shall be designed to eliminate light overflow onto adjacent
residential properties. Any signage, building or parking lighting not necessary
for security purposes shall be placed on automatic timing devices which allow
illumination to commence each day one half hour before the business is open
to the public and to terminate one half hour after the close of business.
36 The dumpster shall be enclosed with building materials that are compatible
with the existing building and located in the rear yard. The enclosure shall
equal the height of the dumpster.
37 All other reviewing agencies must issue their approval prior to the Department
of Public Works issuing its final approval.
38 Applicable Town standards details and notes will need to be incorporated into
the design drawings.
39 Permts will be required from the Town’s Sewer Department and may be
required from other jurisdictional agencies.
40 A letter or memo in response to all Planning Board and Town Engineer
comments and conditions shall be submitted.
MS. CIVILETTI: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------3P-01-14 Application of PGR , LLC, owner for Conditional Use Permit Approval
to allow for an office and assembly facility on property located at 172 Metro Park.
All as described on application and plans on file.
MS. CIVILETTI: I move to close the hearing on
application 3P-01-13-4.
MR. FADER: Second.

-19-

UPON ROLL CALL VOTE

MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED

MS. CIVILETTI: I move the Planning Board
approves the application based on the testimony given, plans submitted and with
the following conditions and Determination of Significance.
DETERMINATION OF SIGNIFICANCE
I move that the Planning Board of the Town of Brighton declares itself to
be lead agency under the State of New York Environmental Quality
Review Act. After considering the action contemplated, the Planning
Board finds it to be an Unlisted Action. Upon review of the
Environmental Assessment form, the application and materials submitted,
and the criteria for determining significance pursuant to the SEQRA the
Planning Board finds that the proposed action will not have a significant
impact on the environment. The Planning Board adopts the negative
declaration prepared by Town Staff.

CONDITIONS

1. All IG zoning district requirements and applicable performance standards
shall be met.
2. An Operational Permit shall be obtained from the Town of Brighton Fire
Marshal (Chris Rothe 585-784-5220). The Fire Marshall shall be contracted
prior to the use or storage of combustible or explosive materials.

3. The ratio of office, warehouse and manufacturing/assembly area shall be
regulated by the existing parking lots ability to meet the applicable parking
requirements of the Brighton Town code. Any proposed additional parking
areas shall be subject to site plan approval.
4. Outside storage shall require further approval.
5. Any proposed generator or other equipment installed outside shall require
further approval.
6. All necessary building permit approvals must be obtained.

-20-

7. All requirements of the Fire Code, Property Maintenance Code and Buildng
Code of the State of New York and any additional requirements of the Fire
Marshal shall be met prior to occupancy.
8. Any exterior modifications must receive Architectural Review Board
Approval.
9. Any proposal signage must receive all necessary Town Approvals.
10. Meet all requirements of the Town of Brighton’s Department of Public
Works.
11. All Town Codes shall be met that relate directly or indirectly to the
applicant’s request.
12. Any proposed change in the exterior lighting shall be submitted to the
Building and Planning Department and may require review and approval by
the Planning Board.
13. All Monroe County comments shall be addressed.
MR. BABCOCK STINER: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------3P-02-14 Application of Anthony J. Costello and Son Development, owner, for
Site Plan Modification for the construction of a 4,464 +/- sf single family house
with a 1,374 sf attached garage on property located at 100 Pendelton Hill (The
Reserve – Lot W10). All as described on application and plans on file.
MR. FADER: I move to close the hearing
for application 3P-02-14.
MS. CIVILETTI: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED
MR. FADER: I move the Planning Board
approves the application based on the testimony given, plans submitted and with
the following SEQR and conditions:

-21-

SEQR
The Planning Board of the Town of Brighton adopted a SEQR Finding Statement
dated January 19, 2011 for this project.
CONDITIONS:
1.A parkland fee in lieu of recreation land shall be paid prior to the issuance of a
building permit for construction of all dwelling units.
2

Prior to the issuance of any permits for this project, the requirements of the
Town Board Incentive Zoning approval must be satisfied.

3

The entire building shall comply with themost current Building & Fire Codes
of New York State.

4

Prior to issuance of any building permits, all plans for utility and storm water
control systems must be reviewed and have been given approval by
appropriate authorities Prior to any occupancy, work proposed on the
approved plans shall have been completed to a degree satisfactory to the
appropriate authorities.

5

Meet all requirements of the Town of Brighton’s Department of Public
Works.

6

All Town code shall be met that relate directly or indirectly to the applicant’s
request.

7

The project and its construction entrance shall meet the New York State
Standards and Specifications for Erosion and Sediment Control.

8

The contractor shall designate a member of his or her firm to be responsible
to monitor erosion control, erosion control structures, tree protection and
preservation throughout construction.

9
10 All trees to be saved shall be protected with orange construction fencing
placed at the drip line or a distance greater than the drip line. Trees shall be
pruned, watered and fertilized prior to , during and after construction.
Materials and equipment storage shall not be allowed in fenced areas.

11 Maintenance of landscape plantings shall be guaranteed for three years.
-22-

11. All outstanding Site Plan comments and concerns of the Town Engineer and
Fire Marshall shall be addressed.
12. All outstanding Site Plan comments and concerns of the Town Engineer
regarding soil erosion, storm water control, water system and sanitary sewer
design shall be addressed.
13. Fire hydrants shall be fully operational prior to and during construction of the
building.
14. All County Development Review Comments shall be addressed.
15. All other reviewing agencies must issue their approval prior t o the
Department of Public Works issuing its final approval.
16. All easements must be shown on the site plan with ownership, purspose and
liber/page of filing with the Monroe County Clerk’s Office. A copy of the
filed easement shall be submitted to the Building and Planning Department for
its records.
17. Prior to the issuance of a building permit the architectural design and building
materials of the proposed building shall be reviewed and approved by the
Town of Brighton Architectural Review Board.
18. The height of the proposed house shall be shown on the plans. Elevation
drawings showing the height of the structure in relationship to proposed grade
shall be submitted to an approved by the Building and Planning Department.
19. Prior to any framing above the deck, an instrument survey showing setback
and first floor elevation shall be submitted to and reviewed by the Building
and Planning Department.
20. Erosion control measures shall be in place prior to site disturbance.
21. The applicant shall review the site plan, elevations, and floor plans to ensure
that the areas and dimensions provided on those plans agree with one another.
Elevation drawings showing the height of the structure in relationship to
proposed grade as shown on the approved site plan shall be submitted. Any
changes to plans shall be reviewed by the Building and Planning Department
and may require Planning Board approval.

-23-

22. The location of any proposed generators and air conditioner units shall be
shown on the stie plan. All requirements of the Comprehensive Development
Regulations shall be met or a variance shall be obtained from the Zoning
Board of Appeals.
23. All comments and concerns of the Town Engineer as contained in the attached
memo dated March 14, 2014 from Mike Guyon, Town Engineer, to Ramsey
Boehner shall be addressed.
24. The existing sidewalk along the cul de sac must be located within an
easement. A sidewalk easement to the Town of Brighton shall be submitted
for review and approval.
25. A letter or memo in response to all Planning Board and Town Engineer
comments and conditions shall be submitted.
MS. CIVILETTI: Second
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------NEW BUSINESS
The University of Rochester _IPD Rezoning Supplemental Draft Generic
Environmental Impact Statement (S-DGEIS)
A discussion was had regarding the setbacks and it was decided if it is inside the
block then Ramsey will administratively approve otherwise they will have to
come in for a few of the applications until we have an understanding of what is
happening.
We will have the next Planning Board meeting on April 10, 2014 and will hold
the (SDGEIS) decision over until then.
HELD OVER

OLD BUSINESS

NONE
-24-

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------PRESENTATIONS
NONE

COMMUNICATIONS
Letter from Paul Colucci, Tops Markets, dated February 24, 2014, requesting
postponement of Sign #1310 to the April 10, 2014 meeting.
Letter from Jerry Goldman, Woods, Oviatt, Gilman LLP, dated March 18, 2014,
requesting postponement of application 12P-NB1-13 to the April 10, 2014
meeting.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------PETITIONS
NONE

SIGNS

25
1310 TOPS Pharmacy Deli Bakery Cage for a building face sign at 1900
South Clinton Avenue
TABLED FOR THE FOLLOWING
1. All required variances shall be obtained.
2. The new location of the sign components (vs architectural elevations
previously reviewed) alter the visual character of the façade previously
reviewed.
POST PONED TO THE 4/10/14 MEETING AT APPLICANT’S
REQUEST
1317 Quartz Plus Countertops Retail for a building face sign at 2209
Monroe Avenue.
CONDITIONS
1. Either “Countertops” or “Retail Outlet” shall be removed.
1318 Ambiance Salon for a building face sign at 1752 Monroe Avenue.
CONDITIONS
1. The sign small be revised as necessary so that the area of the
sign meets the requirements of Brighton regulations.
1319 Yotality for a building face sign at 932 Winton Road South
CONDITIONS
1. All requirements of the approved sign plan for the 12 corners
Plaza shall be met.
1320 Sonus for a Building face sign at 140 Canal View Blvd .
CONDITIONS
1. All required variance shall be obtained.
1321 Yolickity Frozen Yogurt Bar for a building face sign at 2600
Elmwood avenue.
1322 The Landing of Brighton for a freestanding sign at 1350 Westfall
Road.
TABLED FOR THE FOLLOWING.
1. The panel appears to “droop” between the pillars. The board
suggests that the bottom of the sign be revised to align with or
clear the tip of the pillar base. Visually the sign panel crowds
the top of pillars: this relationship should be re-examined.

Ensure that the panel sign is not obscured by the plantings at
mature height.
26
2. The brick on the pillars shall match the brick of the building.
3. Sign details and complete dimensions shall be submitted.
4. Lighting shall be directed and configured to minimize light
spillage. The proposed light type and wattage shallbe
submitted.
OLD BUSINES
1309 Monster Videogame for a building face sign at 2858 West
Henrietta Road.
TABLED FOR THE FOLLOWING
1. All required variances shall be obtained.
2. The spacing between the lines shall be reduced.
3. The sign should be vertically centered within the sign band.
MR. CHAIRMAN: I move to approve the
signs as presented or with conditions and to table 1323 and 1309
and 1310 held over to 4/10/14.
MS. CIVILETTI: Second.
UPON ROLL CALL VOTE MOTION UNANIMOUSLY CARRIED

