Town of Brighton
PUBLIC SAFETY COMMITTEE
2300 Elmwood Avenue, Rochester, New York 14618
(585) 784-5220 Fax (585) 784-5207
Councilman Jason DiPonzio, Chairman
Councilwoman Louise Novros, Co-Chairperson

PUBLIC SAFETY COMMITTEE MEETING
The Town of Brighton Public Safety Committee convened on Tuesday January 8, 2013 at the Brighton Town Hall,
2300 Elmwood Avenue, Rochester, New York 14618. The following is a summary of the matters discussed and
the actions taken at this open meeting.

MEETING CALLED TO ORDER:
Meeting called to order at 0801 hours

MOMENT OF SILENCE:
COMMITTEE MEMBERS PRESENT:
Supervisor William Moehle, Town Council
Councilman Jason DiPonzio, Town Council
Chief Mark Henderson, Brighton Police Department
Captain Robert Cline, Brighton Police Department
Tim Keef, Commissioner of Public Works
Tim Anderson, Deputy Highway Superintendent
Chief Stephen Mac Adams, Brighton Fire District
Captain Joe Luna, Rochester Fire Department
Jonathan Smith, Brighton Ambulance
Christopher Roth, Chief Fire Marshal

GUESTS:
Councilman James Vogel, Town Council
Mercy 5K Committee
Mr. Jim Gerek

APPROVAL OF AGENDA:
Agenda approved as submitted –

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Received and filed minutes of the December 11, 2013 Public Safety Committee Meeting.
Motion by Supervisor Moehle
Seconded by Jonathan Smith

COMMUNICATIONS:

OPEN FORUM:

OLD BUSINESS:
MATTER RE: Proposed No Parking - Chelmsford Road Triangle – Keef / Tuohey
Tim Keef received a communication from Mike Tuohey and he and members of the neighborhood will
be at a future meeting for a decision to be made surrounding parking along Chelmsford Road.
Tim will contact the neighborhood for attendance to the February meeting.

MATTER RE: Corbett's Glen parking on Glen Road – Keef / DiPonzio
Tim Keef has been approached by some residents and they have come back with some suggestions
from the neighbors and will be following up on these suggestions.
MATTER RE: CSX Railroad Safety & Access – Clover Street – Cline /Roth
Tim Anderson has advised the gate is installed and will need to be secured and method shared with
responding emergency services.
MATTER RE: Roselawn Neighborhood Stop Sign Request - Rebecca Weber / Keef
Signs are made and will be installed as soon as weather allows.
MATTER RE: Blossom Road @ Landing Road – Intersection Safety – Keef
No Update - probably late spring 2013
MATTER RE: Warren Avenue - Speed Humps Request – DiPonzio
This was discussed this at Public Works and suggested that a joint evening meeting to discuss
findings and suggestions for this project.
Some traffic calming measures are not appropriate due to road configuration.
Review stop bars and traffic signage to ensure compliance and through enforcement.
Possibly some improvements through a newly formed neighborhood improvement district, if desired.
MATTER RE: Town of Brighton Events / Tour de Cure- DiPonzio / Cline
Captain Cline to meet with Tour de-Cure to review (June 2, 2013) event. Rochester Air show is
proposed for the same dates.
Presentation by Angles to Mercy to committee about their 5K event proposed for September 28,
2013.
The applicant to review committee input and will communicate back as to their intentions.
Report on other activities and or events throughout the community and should have feedback by
March for the finalization of 2013 events.

NEW BUSINESS:
MATTER RE: Emergency Management Plan Update– Roth
We will be updating the plan to ensure our plan is updated and accurate for future use and imp
limitation.
MATTER RE: Comprehensive local ordinance for second hand transactions – Henderson
Chief Henderson passed out some sample ordinance for consideration and adoption.
Chief Henderson addressed second hand transaction procedures so able to track and trace items
transacted.
MATTER RE: Traffic enforcement issues on Highland Avenue – DiPonzio
Mr. Gerek addressed the committee about his concerns about speed and weight limitation along
Highland Avenue. Chief Henderson shared some data and enforcement information. Weight Limit is
posted but research does not support posting may be posted by City of Rochester.
Town of Brighton could address the weight limit issue and discussed definition of local delivery. Chief
Henderson will have staff reach out to Rochester Police Department traffic unit for understanding of
enforcement along Highland Avenue.

MATTER RE: Snow Maintenance and Removal sidewalks – Roth
Will provide a post card to residents reviewing snow removal requirements related to sidewalks.

NETWORKING:
o Brighton Ambulance
Track consumption of Health Care (repeat patients) trying to reduce service requests to help identify
patients needs and make sure proper services are being met. Will be using State Health Department
in this process.
o Brighton Fire
Chief Mac Adam sends his regrets
2012 decrease of 183 calls from 2011, adjusted made to some EMS responses.
Assisted West Webster Fire Department with funeral coverages and benevolent events
Increase security of facility to ensure knowledge of visitors to firehouses.

o Brighton DPW
No Report
o Brighton Police

Vote on a new hire - vacancy looking to fill in the future
Thank BVA for EMS assistance for training

o City Of Rochester Fire Department
Submitted Run Report for December 2012

o Town Council
No Report

SET TIME AND DATE OF NEXT MEETING:
Councilman DiPonzio announced that the next Public Safety Committee meeting would be Tuesday February
11, 2013 in the Community Meeting Room, Brighton Town Hall.

ADJOURNMENT:
Meeting adjourned at 0942 hours
Christopher Roth – Secretary

