Town of Brighton
PUBLIC SAFETY COMMITTEE
2300 Elmwood Avenue, Rochester, New York 14618
(585) 784-5220 Fax (585) 784-5207
Councilman Jason DiPonzio, Chairman
Councilwoman Louise Novros, Co-Chairperson

PUBLIC SAFETY COMMITTEE MEETING
The Town of Brighton Public Safety Committee convened on Tuesday November 13, 2012 at the Brighton Town
Hall, 2300 Elmwood Avenue, Rochester, New York 14618. The following is a summary of the matters discussed
and the actions taken at this open meeting.

MEETING CALLED TO ORDER:
Meeting called to order at 0803 hours

MOMENT OF SILENCE:
COMMITTEE MEMBERS PRESENT:
Supervisor William Moehle, Town Council
Councilman Jason DiPonzio, Town Council
Councilwoman Louise Novros
Chief Mark Henderson, Brighton Police Department
Captain Robert Cline, Brighton Police Department
Tim Keef, Commissioner of Public Works
Tim Anderson, Deputy Superintendent of Highway
Chief Stephen Mac Adams, Brighton Fire District
Captain Joe Luna, Rochester Fire Department
Jonathan Smith, Brighton Ambulance
Christopher Roth, Chief Fire Marshal
Captain Joseph Luna, City of Rochester Fire Department

GUESTS:
Chris Werner
Gary Smith
Larry Elliott
David Shuttleworth
Mary Ellen Dangler
James Pond
Cheryl Sussman
Ian & Stephanie Roth
Cindy Finestone
Morton Shulman

APPROVAL OF AGENDA:
Agenda approved as submitted

APPROVAL OF MINUTES:
Received and filed minutes of the October 9, 2012 Public Safety Committee Meeting.
Motion by William Moehle
Seconded by Louise Novros

COMMUNICATIONS:

OPEN FORUM:

OLD BUSINESS:
MATTER RE: Proposed No Parking - Chelmsford Road Triangle – Keef / Tuohey
Mike Tuohey addressed the committee about parking along Chelmsford Road. He expressed a
concern about the condition of the island and the desire to install the curb and wanting to extend the
curb along the island. Chairman DiPonzio stated this may be multi committee resolution to his
concerns. Tim Keef to review options and cost associated with each proposal.

MATTER RE: Corbett's Glen parking on Glen Road – Keef / DiPonzio
Look to work on a plan for a long term resolution. Tim Keef has expressed that the residents want to
work out some consensus on their end. We will continue to work with the neighborhood and report
back to the committee.
MATTER RE: CSX Railroad Safety & Access – Clover Street – Cline /Roth
This access point(s) appears to be access along a Town of Brighton easement and not along a CSX
property, any action would be a Town of Brighton action. Tim Anderson to review the cost of a fence,
gate or access restriction. Tim Keef expressed this area can also be used to store materials for Town
of Brighton projects; gate or access restriction location should be reviewed.

MATTER RE: Roselawn Neighborhood Stop Sign Request - Rebecca Weber / Keef
This matter will be heard at the Town Board meeting. There are other recent inquires due to
neighborhood mailing and these additional requests need to be sent to this committee for future
research and review.
MATTER RE: Blossom Road @ Landing Road – Intersection Safety – Keef
Tim Keef has received a response and looking at putting in a signal light as an option in 2013. They
would be researching and collecting data to continue the review of this intersection. Tim Keef to
monitor and report back any feedback.

NEW BUSINESS:

MATTER RE: Warren Avenue - Speed Humps Request – DiPanzio
Tim Keef reported that Public Works Committee will work towards many traffic calming measures and
look at data and determine what efforts may be undertaken. Chief Henderson reporting on
enforcement and long and short term solutions in the neighborhood. Officer SMART is deployed for
data collection and survey methods. Increased patrol presence form 7-9 and 3-5 to co-inside with
higher traffic volume. Lighting and sidewalk districts may be developed to address some concerns if
necessary at the neighborhood expense.

MATTER RE: Diverging Diamond- Project and Incident Review –
Road marking with respect to winter weather should not be effected. Signal lights need to be worked
on for sync and flow of traffic. Lanes will be open and will assist in flow. Right on Red at French Road
should be reviewed for possible to be changed to NO RIGHT ON RED. MCDOT to review this and
report back on the findings to support or deny the turn options.
MATTER RE: Hollywood, Antlers and Bonnie Brae Speeding traffic concerns – Dr. Shuttleworth
Dr. Shuttleworh addressed the committee on speed and volume on Hollywood and Meadowbrook.
Bonnie Brae is a cut through to Westfall Road. Police department will collect data and report back as
how enforcement and education efforts work out.

NETWORKING:
o Brighton Ambulance
Working with local sports teams not associated with schools and access for AED and training.
This training would allow access to AED and training to sports teams within Town of Brighton.
Working with Fire Department and Police agencies on calls, responses and available resource
and training.
o Brighton Fire
2000 calls YTD
Bus accident held a overview for incident and future incidents for automatic mutual response.
No significant calls for storm Sandy.
Looking at having a Town of Brighton Operation Center for future incidents and how to activate
and staff.

o Brighton DPW
No Report

o Brighton Police
Last month participated at MCC on an active shooter program meeting , working towards a
table top exercise.
Talk about 2013 Special events for next month for review on policy.

o City Of Rochester Fire Department –
Passed out a run review sheet on runs and activity.

o Town Council –
Supervisor Moehle thanked the Brighton Fire District for the having a follow up meeting about
the bus accident and organizing said meeting. This preparedness also allowed for good
structure for when the storm hit and made for better responses.

SET TIME AND DATE OF NEXT MEETING:
Councilman DiPonzio announced that the next Public Safety Committee meeting would be Tuesday December
11, 2012 in the Community Meeting Room, Brighton Town Hall.

ADJOURNMENT:
Meeting adjourned at 1004 hours
Christopher Roth – Secretary

